test/README.md, before:

![PODMAN logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/containers/common/main/logos/podman-logo-full-vert.png)
# Test utils
Test utils provide common functions and structs for testing. It includes two structs:
* `PodmanTest`: Handle the *podman* command and other global resources like temporary
directory. It provides basic methods, like checking podman image and pod status. Test
suites should create their owner test *struct* as a composite of `PodmanTest`, and their
owner PodmanMakeOptions().

* `PodmanSession`: Store execution session data and related *methods*. Such like get command
output and so on. It can be used directly in the test suite, only embed it to your owner
session struct if you need expend it.

## Unittest for test/utils
To ensure neither *tests* nor *utils* break, There are unit-tests for each *functions* and
*structs* in `test/utils`. When you adding functions or structs to this *package*, please
update both unit-tests for it and this documentation.

### Run unit test for test/utils
Run unit test for test/utils.

```
make localunit
```

## Structure of the test utils and test suites
The test *utils* package is at the same level of test suites. Each test suites also have their
owner common functions and structs stored in `libpod_suite_test.go`.

# Ginkgo test framework
[Ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo) is a BDD testing framework. This allows
us to use native Golang to perform our tests and there is a strong affiliation
between Ginkgo and the Go test framework.

## Installing dependencies
Some external binaries are required to successfully run the tests.
The test currently depend on:
 - normal podman runtime dependencies
 - coreutils
 - ncat
 - gzip
 - xz
 - htpasswd
 - iproute2
 - iptables
 - util-linux
 - tar
 - docker
 - systemd/systemctl

Most of these are only required for a few tests so it is not a big issue if not everything is installed. Only a few test should fail then.

### Installing ginkgo
Build ginkgo and install it under ./test/tools/build/ginkgo with the following command:
```
make .install.ginkgo
```

# Integration Tests
Test suite for integration test for podman command line. It has its own structs:
* `PodmanTestIntegration`: Integration test *struct* as a composite of `PodmanTest`. It
set up the global options for *podman* command to ignore the environment influence from
different test system.

* `PodmanSessionIntegration`: This *struct* has it own *methods* for checking command
output with given format JSON by using *structs* defined in inspect package.

## Running the integration tests
You can run the entire suite of integration tests with the following command:

```
make localintegration
```

To run the remote tests use:
```
make remoteintegration
```

### Test variables

Some test only work as rootless while others only work as root. So to test everything
you should make sure to run the make command above as normal user and root.

The following environment variables are supported by the test setup:
 - `PODMAN_BINARY`: path to the podman binary, defaults to `bin/podman` in the repository root.
 - `PODMAN_REMOTE_BINARY`: path to the podman-remote binary, defaults to `bin/podman-remote` in the repository root.
 - `QUADLET_BINARY`: path to the quadlet binary, defaults to `bin/quadlet` in the repository root.
 - `CONMON_BINARY`: path to th conmon binary, defaults to `/usr/libexec/podman/conmon`.
 - `OCI_RUNTIME`: which oci runtime to use, defaults to `crun`.
 - `NETWORK_BACKEND`: the network backend, either `cni` (default) or `netavark`.
 - `PODMAN_DB`: the database backend `boltdb` (default) or `sqlite`.
 - `PODMAN_TEST_IMAGE_CACHE_DIR`: path were the container images should be cached, defaults to `/tmp`.

### Running a single file of integration tests
You can run a single file of integration tests using the go test command:

```
go test -v test/e2e/libpod_suite_test.go test/e2e/common_test.go test/e2e/config.go test/e2e/config_amd64.go test/e2e/your_test.go
```

If you want to run the tests with the podman-remote client, make sure to replace `test/e2e/libpod_suite_test.go` with `test/e2e/libpod_suite_remote_test.go`.

### Running a single integration test
Before running the test suite, you have to declare which test you want run in the test
file itself. Consider the following actual test:
```
It("podman inspect bogus pod", func() {
		session := podmanTest.Podman([]string{"pod", "inspect", "foobar"})
		session.WaitWithDefaultTimeout()
		Expect(session).To(ExitWithError())
	})
```

To mark this as the test you want run, you simply change the *It* description to *FIt*. Please note how
both the `F` and `I` are capitalized.

You can run a single integration test using the same command we used to run all the tests in a single
file.

```
go test -v test/e2e/libpod_suite_test.go test/e2e/common_test.go test/e2e/config.go test/e2e/config_amd64.go test/e2e/your_test.go
```

*Note*: Be sure you remove the `F` from the tests before committing your changes or you will skip all tests
in that file except the one with the `FIt` denotation.

# System tests
System tests are used for testing the *podman* CLI in the context of a complete system. It
requires that *podman*, all dependencies, and configurations are in place.  The intention of
system testing is to match as closely as possible with real-world user/developer use-cases
and environments. The orchestration of the environments and tests is left to external
tooling.

System tests use Bash Automated Testing System (`bats`) as a testing framework.
Install it via your package manager or get latest stable version
[directly from the repository](https://github.com/bats-core/bats-core), e.g.:

```
mkdir -p ~/tools/bats
git clone --single-branch --branch v1.1.0 https://github.com/bats-core/bats-core.git ~/tools/bats
```

Make sure that `bats` binary (`bin/bats` in the repository) is in your `PATH`, if not - add it:

```
PATH=$PATH:~/tools/bats/bin
```

System tests also rely on `jq`, `socat`, `nmap`, and other tools. For a
comprehensive list, see the `%package tests` section in the
[fedora specfile](https://src.fedoraproject.org/rpms/podman/blob/main/f/podman.spec).

## Running system tests
When `bats` is installed and is in your `PATH`, you can run the test suite with following command:

```
make localsystem
```

## Running the system tests in a more controlled way
If you would like to run a subset of the system tests, or configure the environment (e.g. root vs rootless, local vs remote),
use `hack/bats`.

For usage run:
```
hack/bats --help
```

## Contributing to system tests

Please see [the TODO list of needed workflows/tests](system/TODO.md).

Commit message:

Makefile: add ginkgo FOCUS/FOCUS_FILE options
When running ginkgo tests locally we often only want to test a small
subset. I think most people just add the `FIt` block but then you need
to remember to undo that before pushing the changes.

With this change you can just run:
```
make localintegration FOCUS="test name here"
make localintegration FOCUS_FILE="some_test.go"
```
I updated the test Readme to use this new syntax.
The options just map to the ginkgo options, see the upstream docs
linked in the readme for more information about syntax.

Signed-off-by: Paul Holzinger <pholzing@redhat.com>

test/README.md, after:

![PODMAN logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/containers/common/main/logos/podman-logo-full-vert.png)
# Test utils
Test utils provide common functions and structs for testing. It includes two structs:
* `PodmanTest`: Handle the *podman* command and other global resources like temporary
directory. It provides basic methods, like checking podman image and pod status. Test
suites should create their owner test *struct* as a composite of `PodmanTest`, and their
owner PodmanMakeOptions().

* `PodmanSession`: Store execution session data and related *methods*. Such like get command
output and so on. It can be used directly in the test suite, only embed it to your owner
session struct if you need expend it.

## Unittest for test/utils
To ensure neither *tests* nor *utils* break, There are unit-tests for each *functions* and
*structs* in `test/utils`. When you adding functions or structs to this *package*, please
update both unit-tests for it and this documentation.

### Run unit test for test/utils
Run unit test for test/utils.

```
make localunit
```

## Structure of the test utils and test suites
The test *utils* package is at the same level of test suites. Each test suites also have their
owner common functions and structs stored in `libpod_suite_test.go`.

# Ginkgo test framework
[Ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo) is a BDD testing framework. This allows
us to use native Golang to perform our tests and there is a strong affiliation
between Ginkgo and the Go test framework.

## Installing dependencies
Some external binaries are required to successfully run the tests.
The test currently depend on:
 - normal podman runtime dependencies
 - coreutils
 - ncat
 - gzip
 - xz
 - htpasswd
 - iproute2
 - iptables
 - util-linux
 - tar
 - docker
 - systemd/systemctl

Most of these are only required for a few tests so it is not a big issue if not everything is installed. Only a few test should fail then.

### Installing ginkgo
Build ginkgo and install it under ./test/tools/build/ginkgo with the following command:
```
make .install.ginkgo
```

# Integration Tests
Test suite for integration test for podman command line. It has its own structs:
* `PodmanTestIntegration`: Integration test *struct* as a composite of `PodmanTest`. It
set up the global options for *podman* command to ignore the environment influence from
different test system.

* `PodmanSessionIntegration`: This *struct* has it own *methods* for checking command
output with given format JSON by using *structs* defined in inspect package.

## Running the integration tests
You can run the entire suite of integration tests with the following command:

```
make localintegration
```

To run the remote tests use:
```
make remoteintegration
```

### Test variables

Some test only work as rootless while others only work as root. So to test everything
you should make sure to run the make command above as normal user and root.

The following environment variables are supported by the test setup:
 - `PODMAN_BINARY`: path to the podman binary, defaults to `bin/podman` in the repository root.
 - `PODMAN_REMOTE_BINARY`: path to the podman-remote binary, defaults to `bin/podman-remote` in the repository root.
 - `QUADLET_BINARY`: path to the quadlet binary, defaults to `bin/quadlet` in the repository root.
 - `CONMON_BINARY`: path to th conmon binary, defaults to `/usr/libexec/podman/conmon`.
 - `OCI_RUNTIME`: which oci runtime to use, defaults to `crun`.
 - `NETWORK_BACKEND`: the network backend, either `cni` (default) or `netavark`.
 - `PODMAN_DB`: the database backend `boltdb` (default) or `sqlite`.
 - `PODMAN_TEST_IMAGE_CACHE_DIR`: path were the container images should be cached, defaults to `/tmp`.

### Running a single file of integration tests
You can run a single file of integration tests using the go test command:

```
make localintegration FOCUS_FILE=your_test.go
```

`FOCUS_FILE` file maps to ginkgo's `--focus-file` option, see the ginkgo
[docs](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#location-based-filtering) for the accepted syntax.

For remote tests use the `remoteintegration` Makefile target instead.

### Running a single integration test
Before running the test suite, you have to declare which test you want run in the test
file itself. Consider the following actual test:
```
It("podman inspect bogus pod", func() {
		session := podmanTest.Podman([]string{"pod", "inspect", "foobar"})
		session.WaitWithDefaultTimeout()
		Expect(session).To(ExitWithError())
	})
```

To mark this as the test you want run, you simply change the *It* description to *FIt*. Please note how
both the `F` and `I` are capitalized. Also see the ginkgo [docs](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#focused-specs).

*Note*: Be sure you remove the `F` from the tests before committing your changes or you will skip all tests
in that file except the one with the `FIt` denotation.

Alternatively you can use the `FOCUS` option which maps to `--focus`, again see the ginkgo
[docs](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#description-based-filtering) for more info about the syntax.
```
make localintegration FOCUS="podman inspect bogus pod"
```

# System tests
System tests are used for testing the *podman* CLI in the context of a complete system. It
requires that *podman*, all dependencies, and configurations are in place.  The intention of
system testing is to match as closely as possible with real-world user/developer use-cases
and environments. The orchestration of the environments and tests is left to external
tooling.

System tests use Bash Automated Testing System (`bats`) as a testing framework.
Install it via your package manager or get latest stable version
[directly from the repository](https://github.com/bats-core/bats-core), e.g.:

```
mkdir -p ~/tools/bats
git clone --single-branch --branch v1.1.0 https://github.com/bats-core/bats-core.git ~/tools/bats
```

Make sure that `bats` binary (`bin/bats` in the repository) is in your `PATH`, if not - add it:

```
PATH=$PATH:~/tools/bats/bin
```

System tests also rely on `jq`, `socat`, `nmap`, and other tools. For a
comprehensive list, see the `%package tests` section in the
[fedora specfile](https://src.fedoraproject.org/rpms/podman/blob/main/f/podman.spec).

## Running system tests
When `bats` is installed and is in your `PATH`, you can run the test suite with following command:

```
make localsystem
```

## Running the system tests in a more controlled way
If you would like to run a subset of the system tests, or configure the environment (e.g. root vs rootless, local vs remote),
use `hack/bats`.

For usage run:
```
hack/bats --help
```

## Contributing to system tests

Please see [the TODO list of needed workflows/tests](system/TODO.md).
