.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
---------------------------------------------------
BUG REPORT INFORMATION
---------------------------------------------------
Use the commands below to provide key information from your environment:
You do NOT have to include this information if this is a FEATURE REQUEST

If you are filing a bug against `podman build`, please instead file a bug
against Buildah (https://github.com/projectatomic/buildah/issues). Podman build
executes Buildah to perform container builds, and as such the Buildah
maintainers are best equipped to handle these bugs.
-->

**Is this a BUG REPORT or FEATURE REQUEST?**:

> Uncomment only one, leave it on its own line:
>
> /kind bug
>
> /kind feature

**Description**

<!--
Briefly describe the problem you are having in a few paragraphs.
-->

**Steps to reproduce the issue:**

1.

2.

3.

**Describe the results you received:**


**Describe the results you expected:**


**Additional information you deem important (e.g. issue happens only occasionally):**

**Output of `podman version`:**

```
(paste your output here)
```

**Output of `podman info`:**

```
(paste your output here)
```

**Additional environment details (AWS, VirtualBox, physical, etc.):**

Commit message:

Add notes to check version on problem
Signed-off-by: TomSweeneyRedHat <tsweeney@redhat.com>

Closes: #1462
Approved by: rhatdan

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
---------------------------------------------------
BUG REPORT INFORMATION
---------------------------------------------------
Use the commands below to provide key information from your environment:
You do NOT have to include this information if this is a FEATURE REQUEST
-->

**NOTE** A large number of issues reported against Podman are often found to already be fixed
in more current versions of the project.  Before reporting an issue, please verify the
version you are running with `podman version` and compare it to the latest release
documented on the top of Podman's [README.md](../README.md).  If they differ, please
update your version of Podman to the latest possible and retry your command before creating
an issue.

If you are filing a bug against `podman build`, please instead file a bug
against Buildah (https://github.com/projectatomic/buildah/issues). Podman build
executes Buildah to perform container builds, and as such the Buildah
maintainers are best equipped to handle these bugs.

**Is this a BUG REPORT or FEATURE REQUEST?**:

[//]: # Uncomment only one, leave it on its own line:

[//]: # **kind bug**

[//]: # **kind feature**

**Description**

<!--
Briefly describe the problem you are having in a few paragraphs.
-->

**Steps to reproduce the issue:**

1.

2.

3.

**Describe the results you received:**


**Describe the results you expected:**


**Additional information you deem important (e.g. issue happens only occasionally):**

**Output of `podman version`:**

```
(paste your output here)
```

**Output of `podman info`:**

```
(paste your output here)
```

**Additional environment details (AWS, VirtualBox, physical, etc.):**
