commands.md, before:

![PODMAN logo](logo/podman-logo-source.svg)
# libpod - library for running OCI-based containers in Pods

## Podman Commands
| Command                                                  | Description                                                               | Demo|
| :------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :----|
| [podman(1)](/docs/podman.1.md)                           | Simple management tool for pods and images                                ||
| [podman-attach(1)](/docs/podman-attach.1.md)             | Attach to a running container                                             |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/XDlocUrHVETFECg4zlO9nBbLf)|
| [podman-build(1)](/docs/podman-build.1.md)               | Build an image using instructions from Dockerfiles                        ||
| [podman-commit(1)](/docs/podman-commit.1.md)             | Create new image based on the changed container                           ||
| [podman-container(1)](/docs/podman-container.1.md)       | Manage Containers                    ||
| [podman-container-cleanup(1)](/docs/podman-container-cleanup.1.md)       | Cleanup Container storage and networks                    ||
| [podman-container-refresh(1)](/docs/podman-container-refresh.1.md)       | Refresh all containers state in database                  ||
| [podman-cp(1)](/docs/podman-cp.1.md)                     | Instead of providing a `podman cp` command, the man page `podman-cp` describes how to use the `podman mount` command to have even more flexibility and functionality||
| [podman-create(1)](/docs/podman-create.1.md)             | Create a new container                                                    ||
| [podman-diff(1)](/docs/podman-diff.1.md)                 | Inspect changes on a container or image's filesystem                      |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/FXfWB9CKYFwYM4EfqW3NSZy1G)|
| [podman-exec(1)](/docs/podman-exec.1.md)                 | Execute a command in a running container
| [podman-export(1)](/docs/podman-export.1.md)             | Export container's filesystem contents as a tar archive                   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/913lBIRAg5hK8asyIhhkQVLtV)|
| [podman-history(1)](/docs/podman-history.1.md)           | Shows the history of an image                                             |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/bCvUQJ6DkxInMELZdc5DinNSx)|
| [podman-image(1)](/docs/podman-image.1.md)             | Manage Images||
| [podman-images(1)](/docs/podman-images.1.md)             | List images in local storage                                              |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133649)|
| [podman-import(1)](/docs/podman-import.1.md)             | Import a tarball and save it as a filesystem image                        ||
| [podman-info(1)](/docs/podman-info.1.md)                 | Display system information                                                |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/yKbi5fQ89y5TJ8e1RfJd4ivTD)|
| [podman-inspect(1)](/docs/podman-inspect.1.md)           | Display the configuration of a container or image                         |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133418)|
| [podman-kill(1)](/docs/podman-kill.1.md)                 | Kill the main process in one or more running containers                   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/3jNos0A5yzO4hChu7ddKkUPw7)|
| [podman-load(1)](/docs/podman-load.1.md)                 | Load an image from docker archive or oci                                  |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/kp8kOaexEhEa20P1KLZ3L5X4g)|
| [podman-login(1)](/docs/podman-login.1.md)               | Login to a container registry						   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/oNiPgmfo1FjV2YdesiLpvihtV)|
| [podman-logout(1)](/docs/podman-logout.1.md)             | Logout of a container registry                                            |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/oNiPgmfo1FjV2YdesiLpvihtV)|
| [podman-logs(1)](/docs/podman-logs.1.md)                 | Display the logs of a container                                           |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/MZPTWD5CVs3dMREkBxQBY9C5z)|
| [podman-mount(1)](/docs/podman-mount.1.md)               | Mount a working container's root filesystem                               |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/YSP6hNvZo0RGeMHDA97PhPAf3)|
| [podman-pause(1)](/docs/podman-pause.1.md)               | Pause one or more running containers                                      |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/141292)|
| [podman-pod(1)](/docs/podman-pod.1.md)                   | Simple management tool for groups of containers, called pods              ||
| [podman-pod-create(1)](/docs/podman-pod-create.1.md)     | Create a new pod                                                          ||
| [podman-pod-inspect(1)](/docs/podman-pod-inspect.1.md)   | Inspect a pod                                                             ||
| [podman-pod-kill(1)](podman-pod-kill.1.md)               | Kill the main process of each container in pod.                           ||
| [podman-pod-ps(1)](/docs/podman-pod-ps.1.md)             | List the pods on the system                                               ||
| [podman-pod-pause(1)](podman-pod-pause.1.md)             | Pause one or more pods.                                                   ||
| [podman-pod-restart](/docs/podman-pod-restart.1.md)      | Restart one or more pods                                                  ||
| [podman-pod-rm(1)](/docs/podman-pod-rm.1.md)             | Remove one or more pods                                                   ||
| [podman-pod-start(1)](/docs/podman-pod-start.1.md)       | Start one or more pods                                                    ||
| [podman-pod-stats(1)](/docs/podman-pod-stats.1.md)       | Display a live stream of one or more pods' resource usage statistics      ||                                               ||
| [podman-pod-stop(1)](/docs/podman-pod-stop.1.md)         | Stop one or more pods                                                     ||
| [podman-pod-top(1)](/docs/podman-pod-top.1.md)           | Display the running processes of a pod                                    ||
| [podman-pod-unpause(1)](podman-pod-unpause.1.md)         | Unpause one or more pods.                                                 ||
| [podman-port(1)](/docs/podman-port.1.md)                 | List port mappings for running containers                                 |[![...](/docs/play.png)]()|
| [podman-ps(1)](/docs/podman-ps.1.md)                     | Prints out information about containers                                   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/bbT41kac6CwZ5giESmZLIaTLR)|
| [podman-pull(1)](/docs/podman-pull.1.md)                 | Pull an image from a registry                                             |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/lr4zfoynHJOUNu1KaXa1dwG2X)|
| [podman-push(1)](/docs/podman-push.1.md)                 | Push an image to a specified destination                                  |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133276)|
| [podman-restart](/docs/podman-restart.1.md)              | Restarts one or more containers                                           |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/jiqxJAxcVXw604xdzMLTkQvHM)|
| [podman-rm(1)](/docs/podman-rm.1.md)                     | Removes one or more containers                                            |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/7EMk22WrfGtKWmgHJX9Nze1Qp)|
| [podman-rmi(1)](/docs/podman-rmi.1.md)                   | Removes one or more images                                                |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133799)|
| [podman-run(1)](/docs/podman-run.1.md)                   | Run a command in a container                                              ||
| [podman-save(1)](/docs/podman-save.1.md)                 | Saves an image to an archive                                              |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/kp8kOaexEhEa20P1KLZ3L5X4g)|
| [podman-search(1)](/docs/podman-search.1.md)             | Search a registry for an image                                            ||
| [podman-start(1)](/docs/podman-start.1.md)               | Starts one or more containers
| [podman-stats(1)](/docs/podman-stats.1.md)               | Display a live stream of one or more containers' resource usage statistics|[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/vfUPbAA5tsNWhsfB9p25T6xdr)|
| [podman-stop(1)](/docs/podman-stop.1.md)                 | Stops one or more running containers                                      |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/KNRF9xVXeaeNTNjBQVogvZBcp)|
| [podman-tag(1)](/docs/podman-tag.1.md)                   | Add an additional name to a local image                                   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133803)|
| [podman-top(1)](/docs/podman-top.1.md)                   | Display the running processes of a container              |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/5WCCi1LXwSuRbvaO9cBUYf3fk)|
| [podman-umount(1)](/docs/podman-umount.1.md)             | Unmount a working container's root filesystem                             |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/MZPTWD5CVs3dMREkBxQBY9C5z)|
| [podman-unpause(1)](/docs/podman-unpause.1.md)           | Unpause one or more running containers                                    |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/141292)|
| [podman-varlink(1)](/docs/podman-varlink.1.md)           | Run the varlink backend                                           ||
| [podman-version(1)](/docs/podman-version.1.md)           | Display the version information                                           |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/mfrn61pjZT9Fc8L4NbfdSqfgu)|
| [podman-wait(1)](/docs/podman-wait.1.md)                 | Wait on one or more containers to stop and print their exit codes  |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/QNPGKdjWuPgI96GcfkycQtah0)|

Commit message:

add install and uninstall commands
add install and uninstall commands to mimic the atomic cli commands so users
can use podman in place of the atomic cli.

the install command leverages an INSTALL label that has an embeddded command to
run to prepare the OS or container for the system.

the uninstall command leverges an UNINSTALL label that has an embedded command
that cleans the system including deleting the image (and its containers).

Signed-off-by: baude <bbaude@redhat.com>

commands.md, after:

![PODMAN logo](logo/podman-logo-source.svg)
# libpod - library for running OCI-based containers in Pods

## Podman Commands
| Command                                                  | Description                                                               | Demo|
| :------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :----|
| [podman(1)](/docs/podman.1.md)                           | Simple management tool for pods and images                                ||
| [podman-attach(1)](/docs/podman-attach.1.md)             | Attach to a running container                                             |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/XDlocUrHVETFECg4zlO9nBbLf)|
| [podman-build(1)](/docs/podman-build.1.md)               | Build an image using instructions from Dockerfiles                        ||
| [podman-commit(1)](/docs/podman-commit.1.md)             | Create new image based on the changed container                           ||
| [podman-container(1)](/docs/podman-container.1.md)       | Manage Containers                    ||
| [podman-container-cleanup(1)](/docs/podman-container-cleanup.1.md)       | Cleanup Container storage and networks                    ||
| [podman-container-refresh(1)](/docs/podman-container-refresh.1.md)       | Refresh all containers state in database                  ||
| [podman-cp(1)](/docs/podman-cp.1.md)                     | Instead of providing a `podman cp` command, the man page `podman-cp` describes how to use the `podman mount` command to have even more flexibility and functionality||
| [podman-create(1)](/docs/podman-create.1.md)             | Create a new container                                                    ||
| [podman-diff(1)](/docs/podman-diff.1.md)                 | Inspect changes on a container or image's filesystem                      |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/FXfWB9CKYFwYM4EfqW3NSZy1G)|
| [podman-exec(1)](/docs/podman-exec.1.md)                 | Execute a command in a running container
| [podman-export(1)](/docs/podman-export.1.md)             | Export container's filesystem contents as a tar archive                   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/913lBIRAg5hK8asyIhhkQVLtV)|
| [podman-history(1)](/docs/podman-history.1.md)           | Shows the history of an image                                             |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/bCvUQJ6DkxInMELZdc5DinNSx)|
| [podman-image(1)](/docs/podman-image.1.md)             | Manage Images||
| [podman-images(1)](/docs/podman-images.1.md)             | List images in local storage                                              |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133649)|
| [podman-import(1)](/docs/podman-import.1.md)             | Import a tarball and save it as a filesystem image                        ||
| [podman-info(1)](/docs/podman-info.1.md)                 | Display system information                                                |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/yKbi5fQ89y5TJ8e1RfJd4ivTD)|
| [podman-inspect(1)](/docs/podman-inspect.1.md)           | Display the configuration of a container or image                         |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133418)|
| [podman-install(1)](/docs/podman-install.1.md)           | Execute the INSTALL label of a container image                         ||
| [podman-kill(1)](/docs/podman-kill.1.md)                 | Kill the main process in one or more running containers                   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/3jNos0A5yzO4hChu7ddKkUPw7)|
| [podman-load(1)](/docs/podman-load.1.md)                 | Load an image from docker archive or oci                                  |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/kp8kOaexEhEa20P1KLZ3L5X4g)|
| [podman-login(1)](/docs/podman-login.1.md)               | Login to a container registry						   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/oNiPgmfo1FjV2YdesiLpvihtV)|
| [podman-logout(1)](/docs/podman-logout.1.md)             | Logout of a container registry                                            |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/oNiPgmfo1FjV2YdesiLpvihtV)|
| [podman-logs(1)](/docs/podman-logs.1.md)                 | Display the logs of a container                                           |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/MZPTWD5CVs3dMREkBxQBY9C5z)|
| [podman-mount(1)](/docs/podman-mount.1.md)               | Mount a working container's root filesystem                               |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/YSP6hNvZo0RGeMHDA97PhPAf3)|
| [podman-pause(1)](/docs/podman-pause.1.md)               | Pause one or more running containers                                      |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/141292)|
| [podman-pod(1)](/docs/podman-pod.1.md)                   | Simple management tool for groups of containers, called pods              ||
| [podman-pod-create(1)](/docs/podman-pod-create.1.md)     | Create a new pod                                                          ||
| [podman-pod-inspect(1)](/docs/podman-pod-inspect.1.md)   | Inspect a pod                                                             ||
| [podman-pod-kill(1)](podman-pod-kill.1.md)               | Kill the main process of each container in pod.                           ||
| [podman-pod-ps(1)](/docs/podman-pod-ps.1.md)             | List the pods on the system                                               ||
| [podman-pod-pause(1)](podman-pod-pause.1.md)             | Pause one or more pods.                                                   ||
| [podman-pod-restart](/docs/podman-pod-restart.1.md)      | Restart one or more pods                                                  ||
| [podman-pod-rm(1)](/docs/podman-pod-rm.1.md)             | Remove one or more pods                                                   ||
| [podman-pod-start(1)](/docs/podman-pod-start.1.md)       | Start one or more pods                                                    ||
| [podman-pod-stats(1)](/docs/podman-pod-stats.1.md)       | Display a live stream of one or more pods' resource usage statistics      ||                                               ||
| [podman-pod-stop(1)](/docs/podman-pod-stop.1.md)         | Stop one or more pods                                                     ||
| [podman-pod-top(1)](/docs/podman-pod-top.1.md)           | Display the running processes of a pod                                    ||
| [podman-pod-unpause(1)](podman-pod-unpause.1.md)         | Unpause one or more pods.                                                 ||
| [podman-port(1)](/docs/podman-port.1.md)                 | List port mappings for running containers                                 |[![...](/docs/play.png)]()|
| [podman-ps(1)](/docs/podman-ps.1.md)                     | Prints out information about containers                                   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/bbT41kac6CwZ5giESmZLIaTLR)|
| [podman-pull(1)](/docs/podman-pull.1.md)                 | Pull an image from a registry                                             |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/lr4zfoynHJOUNu1KaXa1dwG2X)|
| [podman-push(1)](/docs/podman-push.1.md)                 | Push an image to a specified destination                                  |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133276)|
| [podman-restart](/docs/podman-restart.1.md)              | Restarts one or more containers                                           |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/jiqxJAxcVXw604xdzMLTkQvHM)|
| [podman-rm(1)](/docs/podman-rm.1.md)                     | Removes one or more containers                                            |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/7EMk22WrfGtKWmgHJX9Nze1Qp)|
| [podman-rmi(1)](/docs/podman-rmi.1.md)                   | Removes one or more images                                                |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133799)|
| [podman-run(1)](/docs/podman-run.1.md)                   | Run a command in a container                                              ||
| [podman-save(1)](/docs/podman-save.1.md)                 | Saves an image to an archive                                              |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/kp8kOaexEhEa20P1KLZ3L5X4g)|
| [podman-search(1)](/docs/podman-search.1.md)             | Search a registry for an image                                            ||
| [podman-start(1)](/docs/podman-start.1.md)               | Starts one or more containers
| [podman-stats(1)](/docs/podman-stats.1.md)               | Display a live stream of one or more containers' resource usage statistics|[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/vfUPbAA5tsNWhsfB9p25T6xdr)|
| [podman-stop(1)](/docs/podman-stop.1.md)                 | Stops one or more running containers                                      |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/KNRF9xVXeaeNTNjBQVogvZBcp)|
| [podman-tag(1)](/docs/podman-tag.1.md)                   | Add an additional name to a local image                                   |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/133803)|
| [podman-top(1)](/docs/podman-top.1.md)                   | Display the running processes of a container              |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/5WCCi1LXwSuRbvaO9cBUYf3fk)|
| [podman-umount(1)](/docs/podman-umount.1.md)             | Unmount a working container's root filesystem                             |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/MZPTWD5CVs3dMREkBxQBY9C5z)|
| [podman-uninstall(1)](/docs/podman-uninstall.1.md)       | Execute the UNINSTALL LABEL of a container image                          ||
| [podman-unpause(1)](/docs/podman-unpause.1.md)           | Unpause one or more running containers                                    |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/141292)|
| [podman-varlink(1)](/docs/podman-varlink.1.md)           | Run the varlink backend                                           ||
| [podman-version(1)](/docs/podman-version.1.md)           | Display the version information                                           |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/mfrn61pjZT9Fc8L4NbfdSqfgu)|
| [podman-wait(1)](/docs/podman-wait.1.md)                 | Wait on one or more containers to stop and print their exit codes  |[![...](/docs/play.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/QNPGKdjWuPgI96GcfkycQtah0)|
