troubleshooting.md, before:

![PODMAN logo](logo/podman-logo-source.svg)

# Troubleshooting

## A list of common issues and solutions for Podman

---
### 1) No such image or Bare keys cannot contain ':'

When doing a `podman pull` or `podman build` command and a "common" image can not be pulled,
it is likely that the `/etc/containers/registries.conf` file is either not installed or possibly
misconfigured.

#### Symptom

```console
$ sudo podman build -f Dockerfile
STEP 1: FROM alpine
error building: error creating build container: no such image "alpine" in registry: image not known
```

or

```console
$ sudo podman pull fedora
error pulling image "fedora": unable to pull fedora: error getting default registries to try: Near line 9 (last key parsed ''): Bare keys cannot contain ':'.
```

#### Solution

  * Verify that the `/etc/containers/registries.conf` file exists.  If not, verify that the skopeo-containers package is installed.
  * Verify that the entries in the `[registries.search]` section of the /etc/containers/registries.conf file are valid and reachable.
    *  i.e. `registries = ['registry.fedoraproject.org', 'quay.io', 'registry.access.redhat.com']`

---
### 2) http: server gave HTTP response to HTTPS client

When doing a Podman command such as `build`, `commit`, `pull`, or `push` to a registry,
tls verification is turned on by default.  If authentication is not used with
those commands, this error can occur.

#### Symptom

```console
$ sudo podman push alpine docker://localhost:5000/myalpine:latest
Getting image source signatures
Get https://localhost:5000/v2/: http: server gave HTTP response to HTTPS client
```

#### Solution

By default tls verification is turned on when communicating to registries from
Podman.  If the registry does not require authentication the Podman commands
such as `build`, `commit`, `pull` and `push` will fail unless tls verification is turned
off using the `--tls-verify` option.  **NOTE:** It is not at all recommended to
communicate with a registry and not use tls verification.

  * Turn off tls verification by passing false to the tls-verification option.
  * I.e. `podman push --tls-verify=false alpine docker://localhost:5000/myalpine:latest`
---

Commit message:

Add notes to check version on problem
Signed-off-by: TomSweeneyRedHat <tsweeney@redhat.com>

Closes: #1462
Approved by: rhatdan

troubleshooting.md, after:

![PODMAN logo](logo/podman-logo-source.svg)

# Troubleshooting

## A list of common issues and solutions for Podman

---
### 1) Variety of issues - Validate Version

A large number of issues reported against Podman are often found to already be fixed
in more current versions of the project.  Before reporting an issue, please verify the
version you are running with `podman version` and compare it to the lastest release
documented on the top of Podman's [README.md](README.md). 

If they differ, please update your version of PODMAN to the latest possible
and retry your command before reporting the issue.

---
### 2) No such image or Bare keys cannot contain ':'

When doing a `podman pull` or `podman build` command and a "common" image can not be pulled,
it is likely that the `/etc/containers/registries.conf` file is either not installed or possibly
misconfigured.

#### Symptom

```console
$ sudo podman build -f Dockerfile
STEP 1: FROM alpine
error building: error creating build container: no such image "alpine" in registry: image not known
```

or

```console
$ sudo podman pull fedora
error pulling image "fedora": unable to pull fedora: error getting default registries to try: Near line 9 (last key parsed ''): Bare keys cannot contain ':'.
```

#### Solution

  * Verify that the `/etc/containers/registries.conf` file exists.  If not, verify that the skopeo-containers package is installed.
  * Verify that the entries in the `[registries.search]` section of the /etc/containers/registries.conf file are valid and reachable.
    *  i.e. `registries = ['registry.fedoraproject.org', 'quay.io', 'registry.access.redhat.com']`

---
### 3) http: server gave HTTP response to HTTPS client

When doing a Podman command such as `build`, `commit`, `pull`, or `push` to a registry,
tls verification is turned on by default.  If authentication is not used with
those commands, this error can occur.

#### Symptom

```console
$ sudo podman push alpine docker://localhost:5000/myalpine:latest
Getting image source signatures
Get https://localhost:5000/v2/: http: server gave HTTP response to HTTPS client
```

#### Solution

By default tls verification is turned on when communicating to registries from
Podman.  If the registry does not require authentication the Podman commands
such as `build`, `commit`, `pull` and `push` will fail unless tls verification is turned
off using the `--tls-verify` option.  **NOTE:** It is not at all recommended to
communicate with a registry and not use tls verification.

  * Turn off tls verification by passing false to the tls-verification option.
  * I.e. `podman push --tls-verify=false alpine docker://localhost:5000/myalpine:latest`
---
