docs/source/markdown/podman-manifest.1.md, before:

% podman-manifest 1

## NAME
podman\-manifest - Create and manipulate manifest lists and image indexes

## SYNOPSIS
**podman manifest** *subcommand*

## DESCRIPTION
The `podman manifest` command provides subcommands which can be used to:

    * Create a working Docker manifest list or OCI image index.

## SUBCOMMANDS

| Command  | Man Page                                                     | Description                                                                 |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| add      | [podman-manifest-add(1)](podman-manifest-add.1.md)           | Add an image to a manifest list or image index.                             |
| annotate | [podman-manifest-annotate(1)](podman-manifest-annotate.1.md) | Add or update information about an entry in a manifest list or image index. |
| create   | [podman-manifest-create(1)](podman-manifest-create.1.md)     | Create a manifest list or image index.                                      |
| exists   | [podman-manifest-exists(1)](podman-manifest-exists.1.md)     | Check if the given manifest list exists in local storage                    |
| inspect  | [podman-manifest-inspect(1)](podman-manifest-inspect.1.md)   | Display a manifest list or image index.                                     |
| push     | [podman-manifest-push(1)](podman-manifest-push.1.md)         | Push a manifest list or image index to a registry.                          |
| remove   | [podman-manifest-remove(1)](podman-manifest-remove.1.md)     | Remove an image from a manifest list or image index.                        |
| rm       | [podman-manifest-rm(1)](podman-manifest-rm.1.md)             | Remove manifest list or image index from local storage.                     |

## EXAMPLES

### Building a multi-arch manifest list from a Containerfile

Assuming the `Containerfile` uses `RUN` instructions, the host needs
a way to execute non-native binaries.  Configuring this is beyond
the scope of this example.  Building a multi-arch manifest list
`shazam` in parallel across 4-threads can be done like this:

        $ platarch=linux/amd64,linux/ppc64le,linux/arm64,linux/s390x
        $ podman build --jobs=4 --platform=$platarch --manifest shazam .

**Note:** The `--jobs` argument is optional, and the `-t` or `--tag`
option should *not* be used.

### Assembling a multi-arch manifest from separately built images

Assuming `example.com/example/shazam:$arch` images are built separately
on other hosts and pushed to the `example.com` registry.  They may
be combined into a manifest list, and pushed using a simple loop:

        $ REPO=example.com/example/shazam
        $ podman manifest create $REPO:latest
        $ for IMGTAG in amd64 s390x ppc64le arm64; do \
                  podman manifest add $REPO:latest docker://$REPO:IMGTAG; \
              done
        $ podman manifest push --all $REPO:latest

**Note:** The `add` instruction argument order is `<manifest>` then `<image>`.
Also, the `--all` push option is required to ensure all contents are
pushed, not just the native platform/arch.

### Removing and tagging a manifest list before pushing

Special care is needed when removing and pushing manifest lists, as opposed
to the contents.  You almost always want to use the `manifest rm` and
`manifest push --all` subcommands.  For example, a rename and push could
be performed like this:

        $ podman tag localhost/shazam example.com/example/shazam
        $ podman manifest rm localhost/shazam
        $ podman manifest push --all example.com/example/shazam


## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-add(1)](podman-manifest-add.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-annotate(1)](podman-manifest-annotate.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-create(1)](podman-manifest-create.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-inspect(1)](podman-manifest-inspect.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-push(1)](podman-manifest-push.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-remove(1)](podman-manifest-remove.1.md)**

Commit message:

Remove future tense from man pages
Remove all will, would, could, should and use present tense.

Signed-off-by: Daniel J Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/podman-manifest.1.md, after:

% podman-manifest 1

## NAME
podman\-manifest - Create and manipulate manifest lists and image indexes

## SYNOPSIS
**podman manifest** *subcommand*

## DESCRIPTION
The `podman manifest` command provides subcommands which can be used to:

    * Create a working Docker manifest list or OCI image index.

## SUBCOMMANDS

| Command  | Man Page                                                     | Description                                                                 |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| add      | [podman-manifest-add(1)](podman-manifest-add.1.md)           | Add an image to a manifest list or image index.                             |
| annotate | [podman-manifest-annotate(1)](podman-manifest-annotate.1.md) | Add or update information about an entry in a manifest list or image index. |
| create   | [podman-manifest-create(1)](podman-manifest-create.1.md)     | Create a manifest list or image index.                                      |
| exists   | [podman-manifest-exists(1)](podman-manifest-exists.1.md)     | Check if the given manifest list exists in local storage                    |
| inspect  | [podman-manifest-inspect(1)](podman-manifest-inspect.1.md)   | Display a manifest list or image index.                                     |
| push     | [podman-manifest-push(1)](podman-manifest-push.1.md)         | Push a manifest list or image index to a registry.                          |
| remove   | [podman-manifest-remove(1)](podman-manifest-remove.1.md)     | Remove an image from a manifest list or image index.                        |
| rm       | [podman-manifest-rm(1)](podman-manifest-rm.1.md)             | Remove manifest list or image index from local storage.                     |

## EXAMPLES

### Building a multi-arch manifest list from a Containerfile

Assuming the `Containerfile` uses `RUN` instructions, the host needs
a way to execute non-native binaries.  Configuring this is beyond
the scope of this example.  Building a multi-arch manifest list
`shazam` in parallel across 4-threads can be done like this:

        $ platarch=linux/amd64,linux/ppc64le,linux/arm64,linux/s390x
        $ podman build --jobs=4 --platform=$platarch --manifest shazam .

**Note:** The `--jobs` argument is optional. Do not use the `podman build` command's `--tag` (or `-t`) option when building a multi-arch manifest list.

### Assembling a multi-arch manifest from separately built images

Assuming `example.com/example/shazam:$arch` images are built separately
on other hosts and pushed to the `example.com` registry.  They may
be combined into a manifest list, and pushed using a simple loop:

        $ REPO=example.com/example/shazam
        $ podman manifest create $REPO:latest
        $ for IMGTAG in amd64 s390x ppc64le arm64; do \
                  podman manifest add $REPO:latest docker://$REPO:IMGTAG; \
              done
        $ podman manifest push --all $REPO:latest

**Note:** The `add` instruction argument order is `<manifest>` then `<image>`.
Also, the `--all` push option is required to ensure all contents are
pushed, not just the native platform/arch.

### Removing and tagging a manifest list before pushing

Special care is needed when removing and pushing manifest lists, as opposed
to the contents.  You almost always want to use the `manifest rm` and
`manifest push --all` subcommands.  For example, a rename and push can
be performed like this:

        $ podman tag localhost/shazam example.com/example/shazam
        $ podman manifest rm localhost/shazam
        $ podman manifest push --all example.com/example/shazam


## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-add(1)](podman-manifest-add.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-annotate(1)](podman-manifest-annotate.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-create(1)](podman-manifest-create.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-inspect(1)](podman-manifest-inspect.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-push(1)](podman-manifest-push.1.md)**, **[podman-manifest-remove(1)](podman-manifest-remove.1.md)**
