docs/source/markdown/podman-kube-generate.1.md, before:

-% podman-kube-generate(1)
## NAME
podman-kube-generate - Generate Kubernetes YAML based on containers, pods or volumes

## SYNOPSIS
**podman kube generate** [*options*] *container...* | *pod...* | *volume...*

## DESCRIPTION
**podman kube generate** generates Kubernetes YAML (v1 specification) from Podman containers, pods or volumes. Regardless of whether
the input is for containers or pods, Podman generates the specification as a Pod by default. The input may be in the form
of one or more containers, pods or volumes names or IDs.

`Podman Containers or Pods`

Volumes appear in the generated YAML according to two different volume types. Bind-mounted volumes become *hostPath* volume types and named volumes become *persistentVolumeClaim* volume types. Generated *hostPath* volume types are one of three subtypes depending on the state of the host path: *DirectoryOrCreate* when no file or directory exists at the host, *Directory* when host path is a directory, or *File* when host path is a file. The value for *claimName* for a *persistentVolumeClaim* is the name of the named volume registered in Podman.

Potential name conflicts between volumes are avoided by using a standard naming scheme for each volume type. The *hostPath* volume types are named according to the path on the host machine, replacing forward slashes with hyphens less any leading and trailing forward slashes. The special case of the filesystem root, `/`, translates to the name `root`. Additionally, the name is suffixed with `-host` to avoid naming conflicts with *persistentVolumeClaim* volumes. Each *persistentVolumeClaim* volume type uses the name of its associated named volume suffixed with `-pvc`.

Note that if an init container is created with type `once` and the pod has been started, it does not show up in the generated kube YAML as `once` type init containers are deleted after they are run. If the pod has only been created and not started, it is in the generated kube YAML.
Init containers created with type `always` are always generated in the kube YAML as they are never deleted, even after running to completion.

*Note*: When using volumes and generating a Kubernetes YAML for an unprivileged and rootless podman container on an **SELinux enabled system**,  one of the following options must be completed:
  * Add the "privileged: true" option to the pod spec
  * Add `type: spc_t` under the `securityContext` `seLinuxOptions` in the pod spec
  * Relabel the volume via the CLI command `chcon -t container_file_t -R <directory>`

Once completed, the correct permissions are in place to access the volume when the pod/container is created in a Kubernetes cluster.

Note that the generated Kubernetes YAML file can be used to re-run the deployment via podman-play-kube(1).

## OPTIONS

#### **--filename**, **-f**=*filename*

Output to the given file instead of STDOUT. If the file already exists, `kube generate` refuses to replace it and returns an error.

#### **--replicas**, **-r**=*replica count*

The value to set `replicas` to when generating a **Deployment** kind.
Note: this can only be set with the option `--type=deployment`.

#### **--service**, **-s**

Generate a Kubernetes service object in addition to the Pods. Used to generate a Service specification for the corresponding Pod output. In particular, if the object has portmap bindings, the service specification includes a NodePort declaration to expose the service. A random port is assigned by Podman in the specification.

#### **--type**, **-t**=*pod | deployment*

The Kubernetes kind to generate in the YAML file. Currently, the only supported Kubernetes specifications are `Pod` and `Deployment`. By default, the `Pod` specification is generated.

## EXAMPLES

Create Kubernetes Pod YAML for a container called `some-mariadb`.
```
$ sudo podman kube generate some-mariadb
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-0.11.2-dev
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2018-12-03T19:07:59Z
  labels:
    app: some-mariadb
  name: some-mariadb-libpod
spec:
  containers:
  - command:
    - docker-entrypoint.sh
    - mysqld
    env:
    - name: HOSTNAME
    - name: GOSU_VERSION
      value: "1.10"
    - name: GPG_KEYS
      value: "199369E5404BD5FC7D2FE43BCBCB082A1BB943DB \t177F4010FE56CA3336300305F1656F24C74CD1D8
        \t430BDF5C56E7C94E848EE60C1C4CBDCDCD2EFD2A \t4D1BB29D63D98E422B2113B19334A25F8507EFA5"
    - name: MARIADB_MAJOR
      value: "10.3"
    - name: MARIADB_VERSION
      value: 1:10.3.10+maria~bionic
    - name: MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
      value: x
    image: quay.io/baude/demodb:latest
    name: some-mariadb
    ports:
    - containerPort: 3306
      hostPort: 36533
    tty: true
```

Create Kubernetes Deployment YAML with 3 replicas for a container called `dep-ctr`
```
$ podman kube generate --type deployment --replicas 3 dep-ct
r
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-4.5.0-dev
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2023-03-27T20:45:08Z"
  labels:
    app: dep-ctr-pod
  name: dep-ctr-pod-deployment
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: dep-ctr-pod
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        io.podman.annotations.ulimit: nofile=524288:524288,nproc=127332:127332
      creationTimestamp: "2023-03-27T20:45:08Z"
      labels:
        app: dep-ctr-pod
      name: dep-ctr-pod
    spec:
      containers:
      - command:
        - top
        image: docker.io/library/alpine:latest
        name: dep-ctr
```


Create Kubernetes Pod YAML for a container with the directory `/home/user/my-data` on the host bind-mounted in the container to `/volume`.
```
$ podman kube generate my-container-with-bind-mounted-data
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-3.1.0-dev
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2021-03-18T16:26:08Z"
  labels:
    app: my-container-with-bind-mounted-data
  name: my-container-with-bind-mounted-data
spec:
  containers:
  - command:
    - /bin/sh
    image: docker.io/library/alpine:latest
    name: test-bind-mount
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /volume
      name: home-user-my-data-host
  restartPolicy: Never
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: /home/user/my-data
      type: Directory
    name: home-user-my-data-host
```

Create Kubernetes Pod YAML for a container with the named volume `priceless-data` mounted in the container at `/volume`.
```
$ podman kube generate my-container-using-priceless-data
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-3.1.0-dev
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2021-03-18T16:26:08Z"
  labels:
    app: my-container-using-priceless-data
  name: my-container-using-priceless-data
spec:
  containers:
  - command:
    - /bin/sh
    image: docker.io/library/alpine:latest
    name: test-bind-mount
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /volume
      name: priceless-data-pvc
  restartPolicy: Never
  volumes:
  - name: priceless-data-pvc
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: priceless-data
```

Create Kubernetes Pod YAML for a pod called `demoweb` and include a service.
```
$ sudo podman kube generate -s demoweb
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-0.12.2-dev
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2018-12-18T15:16:06Z
  labels:
    app: demoweb
  name: demoweb-libpod
spec:
  containers:
  - command:
    - python3
    - /root/code/graph.py
    image: quay.io/baude/demoweb:latest
    name: practicalarchimedes
    tty: true
    workingDir: /root/code
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2018-12-18T15:16:06Z
  labels:
    app: demoweb
  name: demoweb-libpod
spec:
  ports:
  - name: "8050"
    nodePort: 31269
    port: 8050
    targetPort: 0
  selector:
    app: demoweb
  type: NodePort
status:
  loadBalancer: {}
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-container(1)](podman-container.1.md)**, **[podman-pod(1)](podman-pod.1.md)**, **[podman-kube-play(1)](podman-kube-play.1.md)**, **[podman-kube-down(1)](podman-kube-down.1.md)**

## HISTORY
December 2018, Originally compiled by Brent Baude (bbaude at redhat dot com)

Commit message:

Add `--no-trunc` flag to maintain original annotation length
Adds a `--no-trunc` flag to `podman kube generate` preventing the
annotations from being trimmed at 63 characters. However, due to
the fact the annotations will not be trimmed, any annotation that is
longer than 63 characters means this YAML will no longer be Kubernetes
compatible. However, these YAML files can still be used with `podman
kube play` due to the addition of the new flag below.

Adds a `--no-trunc` flag to `podman kube play` supporting YAML files with
annotations that were not truncated to the Kubernetes maximum length of
63 characters.

Signed-off-by: Jake Correnti <jakecorrenti+github@proton.me>

docs/source/markdown/podman-kube-generate.1.md, after:

-% podman-kube-generate(1)
## NAME
podman-kube-generate - Generate Kubernetes YAML based on containers, pods or volumes

## SYNOPSIS
**podman kube generate** [*options*] *container...* | *pod...* | *volume...*

## DESCRIPTION
**podman kube generate** generates Kubernetes YAML (v1 specification) from Podman containers, pods or volumes. Regardless of whether
the input is for containers or pods, Podman generates the specification as a Pod by default. The input may be in the form
of one or more containers, pods or volumes names or IDs.

`Podman Containers or Pods`

Volumes appear in the generated YAML according to two different volume types. Bind-mounted volumes become *hostPath* volume types and named volumes become *persistentVolumeClaim* volume types. Generated *hostPath* volume types are one of three subtypes depending on the state of the host path: *DirectoryOrCreate* when no file or directory exists at the host, *Directory* when host path is a directory, or *File* when host path is a file. The value for *claimName* for a *persistentVolumeClaim* is the name of the named volume registered in Podman.

Potential name conflicts between volumes are avoided by using a standard naming scheme for each volume type. The *hostPath* volume types are named according to the path on the host machine, replacing forward slashes with hyphens less any leading and trailing forward slashes. The special case of the filesystem root, `/`, translates to the name `root`. Additionally, the name is suffixed with `-host` to avoid naming conflicts with *persistentVolumeClaim* volumes. Each *persistentVolumeClaim* volume type uses the name of its associated named volume suffixed with `-pvc`.

Note that if an init container is created with type `once` and the pod has been started, it does not show up in the generated kube YAML as `once` type init containers are deleted after they are run. If the pod has only been created and not started, it is in the generated kube YAML.
Init containers created with type `always` are always generated in the kube YAML as they are never deleted, even after running to completion.

*Note*: When using volumes and generating a Kubernetes YAML for an unprivileged and rootless podman container on an **SELinux enabled system**,  one of the following options must be completed:
  * Add the "privileged: true" option to the pod spec
  * Add `type: spc_t` under the `securityContext` `seLinuxOptions` in the pod spec
  * Relabel the volume via the CLI command `chcon -t container_file_t -R <directory>`

Once completed, the correct permissions are in place to access the volume when the pod/container is created in a Kubernetes cluster.

Note that the generated Kubernetes YAML file can be used to re-run the deployment via podman-play-kube(1).

## OPTIONS

#### **--filename**, **-f**=*filename*

Output to the given file instead of STDOUT. If the file already exists, `kube generate` refuses to replace it and returns an error.

#### **--no-trunc**

Don't truncate annotations to the Kubernetes maximum length of 63 characters.
Note: enabling this flag means the generated YAML file is not Kubernetes compatible and can only be used with `podman kube play`

#### **--replicas**, **-r**=*replica count*

The value to set `replicas` to when generating a **Deployment** kind.
Note: this can only be set with the option `--type=deployment`.

#### **--service**, **-s**

Generate a Kubernetes service object in addition to the Pods. Used to generate a Service specification for the corresponding Pod output. In particular, if the object has portmap bindings, the service specification includes a NodePort declaration to expose the service. A random port is assigned by Podman in the specification.

#### **--type**, **-t**=*pod | deployment*

The Kubernetes kind to generate in the YAML file. Currently, the only supported Kubernetes specifications are `Pod` and `Deployment`. By default, the `Pod` specification is generated.

## EXAMPLES

Create Kubernetes Pod YAML for a container called `some-mariadb`.
```
$ sudo podman kube generate some-mariadb
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-0.11.2-dev
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2018-12-03T19:07:59Z
  labels:
    app: some-mariadb
  name: some-mariadb-libpod
spec:
  containers:
  - command:
    - docker-entrypoint.sh
    - mysqld
    env:
    - name: HOSTNAME
    - name: GOSU_VERSION
      value: "1.10"
    - name: GPG_KEYS
      value: "199369E5404BD5FC7D2FE43BCBCB082A1BB943DB \t177F4010FE56CA3336300305F1656F24C74CD1D8
        \t430BDF5C56E7C94E848EE60C1C4CBDCDCD2EFD2A \t4D1BB29D63D98E422B2113B19334A25F8507EFA5"
    - name: MARIADB_MAJOR
      value: "10.3"
    - name: MARIADB_VERSION
      value: 1:10.3.10+maria~bionic
    - name: MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
      value: x
    image: quay.io/baude/demodb:latest
    name: some-mariadb
    ports:
    - containerPort: 3306
      hostPort: 36533
    tty: true
```

Create Kubernetes Deployment YAML with 3 replicas for a container called `dep-ctr`
```
$ podman kube generate --type deployment --replicas 3 dep-ct
r
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-4.5.0-dev
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2023-03-27T20:45:08Z"
  labels:
    app: dep-ctr-pod
  name: dep-ctr-pod-deployment
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: dep-ctr-pod
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        io.podman.annotations.ulimit: nofile=524288:524288,nproc=127332:127332
      creationTimestamp: "2023-03-27T20:45:08Z"
      labels:
        app: dep-ctr-pod
      name: dep-ctr-pod
    spec:
      containers:
      - command:
        - top
        image: docker.io/library/alpine:latest
        name: dep-ctr
```


Create Kubernetes Pod YAML for a container with the directory `/home/user/my-data` on the host bind-mounted in the container to `/volume`.
```
$ podman kube generate my-container-with-bind-mounted-data
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-3.1.0-dev
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2021-03-18T16:26:08Z"
  labels:
    app: my-container-with-bind-mounted-data
  name: my-container-with-bind-mounted-data
spec:
  containers:
  - command:
    - /bin/sh
    image: docker.io/library/alpine:latest
    name: test-bind-mount
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /volume
      name: home-user-my-data-host
  restartPolicy: Never
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: /home/user/my-data
      type: Directory
    name: home-user-my-data-host
```

Create Kubernetes Pod YAML for a container with the named volume `priceless-data` mounted in the container at `/volume`.
```
$ podman kube generate my-container-using-priceless-data
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-3.1.0-dev
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2021-03-18T16:26:08Z"
  labels:
    app: my-container-using-priceless-data
  name: my-container-using-priceless-data
spec:
  containers:
  - command:
    - /bin/sh
    image: docker.io/library/alpine:latest
    name: test-bind-mount
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /volume
      name: priceless-data-pvc
  restartPolicy: Never
  volumes:
  - name: priceless-data-pvc
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: priceless-data
```

Create Kubernetes Pod YAML for a pod called `demoweb` and include a service.
```
$ sudo podman kube generate -s demoweb
# Save the output of this file and use kubectl create -f to import
# it into Kubernetes.
#
# Created with podman-0.12.2-dev
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2018-12-18T15:16:06Z
  labels:
    app: demoweb
  name: demoweb-libpod
spec:
  containers:
  - command:
    - python3
    - /root/code/graph.py
    image: quay.io/baude/demoweb:latest
    name: practicalarchimedes
    tty: true
    workingDir: /root/code
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2018-12-18T15:16:06Z
  labels:
    app: demoweb
  name: demoweb-libpod
spec:
  ports:
  - name: "8050"
    nodePort: 31269
    port: 8050
    targetPort: 0
  selector:
    app: demoweb
  type: NodePort
status:
  loadBalancer: {}
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-container(1)](podman-container.1.md)**, **[podman-pod(1)](podman-pod.1.md)**, **[podman-kube-play(1)](podman-kube-play.1.md)**, **[podman-kube-down(1)](podman-kube-down.1.md)**

## HISTORY
December 2018, Originally compiled by Brent Baude (bbaude at redhat dot com)
