docs/source/markdown/podman-events.1.md, before:

% podman-events 1

## NAME
podman\-events - Monitor Podman events

## SYNOPSIS
**podman events** [*options*]

**podman system events** [*options*]

## DESCRIPTION

Monitor and print events that occur in Podman. Each event will include a timestamp,
a type, a status, name (if applicable), and image (if applicable).  The default logging
mechanism is *journald*. This can be changed in containers.conf by changing the `events_logger`
value to `file`.  Only `file` and `journald` are accepted. A `none` logger is also
available but this logging mechanism completely disables events; nothing will be reported by
`podman events`.

By default, streaming mode is used, printing new events as they occur.  Previous events can be listed via `--since` and `--until`.

The *container* event type will report the follow statuses:
 * attach
 * checkpoint
 * cleanup
 * commit
 * connect
 * create
 * died
 * disconnect
 * exec
 * exec_died
 * exited
 * export
 * import
 * init
 * kill
 * mount
 * pause
 * prune
 * remove
 * rename
 * restart
 * restore
 * start
 * stop
 * sync
 * unmount
 * unpause

The *pod* event type will report the follow statuses:
 * create
 * kill
 * pause
 * remove
 * start
 * stop
 * unpause

The *image* event type will report the following statuses:
 * loadFromArchive,
 * mount
 * pull
 * push
 * remove
 * save
 * tag
 * unmount
 * untag

The *system* type will report the following statuses:
 * refresh
 * renumber

The *volume* type will report the following statuses:
 * create
 * prune
 * remove

#### Verbose Create Events

Setting `events_container_create_inspect_data=true` in containers.conf(5) instructs Podman to create more verbose container-create events which include a JSON payload with detailed information about the containers.  The JSON payload is identical to the one of podman-container-inspect(1).  The associated field in journald is named `PODMAN_CONTAINER_INSPECT_DATA`.

## OPTIONS

#### **--filter**, **-f**=*filter*

Filter events that are displayed.  They must be in the format of "filter=value".  The following
filters are supported:
 * container=name_or_id
 * event=event_status (described above)
 * image=name_or_id
 * label=key=value
 * pod=name_or_id
 * volume=name_or_id
 * type=event_type (described above)

In the case where an ID is used, the ID may be in its full or shortened form.  The "die" event is mapped to "died" for Docker compatibility.

#### **--format**

Format the output to JSON Lines or using the given Go template.

| **Placeholder**    | **Description**                               |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| .Attributes        | created_at, _by, labels, and more (map[])     |
| .ContainerExitCode | Exit code (int)                               |
| .Details ...       | Internal structure, not actually useful       |
| .HealthStatus      | Health Status (string)                        |
| .ID                | Container ID (full 64-bit SHA)                |
| .Image             | Name of image being run (string)              |
| .Name              | Container name (string)                       |
| .Network           | Name of network being used (string)           |
| .Status            | Event status (e.g., create, start, died, ...) |
| .Time              | Event timestamp (string)                      |
| .Type              | Event type (e.g., image, container, pod, ...) |

#### **--help**

Print usage statement.

#### **--no-trunc**

Do not truncate the output (default *true*).

#### **--since**=*timestamp*

Show all events created since the given timestamp


#### **--until**=*timestamp*

Show all events created until the given timestamp

The *since* and *until* values can be RFC3339Nano time stamps or a Go duration string such as 10m, 5h. If no
*since* or *until* values are provided, only new events will be shown.

## EXAMPLES

Showing Podman events
```
$ podman events
2019-03-02 10:33:42.312377447 -0600 CST container create 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
2019-03-02 10:33:46.958768077 -0600 CST container init 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
2019-03-02 10:33:46.973661968 -0600 CST container start 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
2019-03-02 10:33:50.833761479 -0600 CST container stop 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
2019-03-02 10:33:51.047104966 -0600 CST container cleanup 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
```

Show only Podman create events
```
$ podman events -f event=create
2019-03-02 10:36:01.375685062 -0600 CST container create 20dc581f6fbf (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=sharp_morse)
2019-03-02 10:36:08.561188337 -0600 CST container create 58e7e002344c (image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1, name=3e701f270d54-infra)
2019-03-02 10:36:13.146899437 -0600 CST volume create cad6dc50e087 (image=, name=cad6dc50e0879568e7d656bd004bd343d6035e7fc4024e1711506fe2fd459e6f)
2019-03-02 10:36:29.978806894 -0600 CST container create d81e30f1310f (image=docker.io/library/busybox:latest, name=musing_newton)
```

Show only Podman pod create events
```
$ podman events --filter event=create --filter type=pod
2019-03-02 10:44:29.601746633 -0600 CST pod create 1df5ebca7b44 (image=, name=confident_hawking)
2019-03-02 10:44:42.374637304 -0600 CST pod create ca731231718e (image=, name=webapp)
2019-03-02 10:44:47.486759133 -0600 CST pod create 71e807fc3a8e (image=, name=reverent_swanson)
```

Show only Podman events created in the last five minutes:
```
$ sudo podman events --since 5m
2019-03-02 10:44:29.598835409 -0600 CST container create b629d10d3831 (image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1, name=1df5ebca7b44-infra)
2019-03-02 10:44:29.601746633 -0600 CST pod create 1df5ebca7b44 (image=, name=confident_hawking)
2019-03-02 10:44:42.371100253 -0600 CST container create 170a0f457d00 (image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1, name=ca731231718e-infra)
2019-03-02 10:44:42.374637304 -0600 CST pod create ca731231718e (image=, name=webapp)
```

Show Podman events in JSON Lines format
```
$ podman events --format json
{"ID":"683b0909d556a9c02fa8cd2b61c3531a965db42158627622d1a67b391964d519","Image":"localhost/myshdemo:latest","Name":"agitated_diffie","Status":"cleanup","Time":"2019-04-27T22:47:00.849932843-04:00","Type":"container"}
{"ID":"a0f8ab051bfd43f9c5141a8a2502139707e4b38d98ac0872e57c5315381e88ad","Image":"docker.io/library/alpine:latest","Name":"friendly_tereshkova","Status":"unmount","Time":"2019-04-28T13:43:38.063017276-04:00","Type":"container"}
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)**

## HISTORY
March 2019, Originally compiled by Brent Baude <bbaude@redhat.com>

Commit message:

[CI:DOCS] events: document journald identifiers
Document the identifiers used in the journald events backend. Those can
be used to filter Podman events with journalctl and I need them to be
documented for a blog I am writing at the moment.

Signed-off-by: Valentin Rothberg <vrothberg@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/podman-events.1.md, after:

% podman-events 1

## NAME
podman\-events - Monitor Podman events

## SYNOPSIS
**podman events** [*options*]

**podman system events** [*options*]

## DESCRIPTION

Monitor and print events that occur in Podman. Each event will include a timestamp,
a type, a status, name (if applicable), and image (if applicable).  The default logging
mechanism is *journald*. This can be changed in containers.conf by changing the `events_logger`
value to `file`.  Only `file` and `journald` are accepted. A `none` logger is also
available but this logging mechanism completely disables events; nothing will be reported by
`podman events`.

By default, streaming mode is used, printing new events as they occur.  Previous events can be listed via `--since` and `--until`.

The *container* event type will report the follow statuses:
 * attach
 * checkpoint
 * cleanup
 * commit
 * connect
 * create
 * died
 * disconnect
 * exec
 * exec_died
 * exited
 * export
 * import
 * init
 * kill
 * mount
 * pause
 * prune
 * remove
 * rename
 * restart
 * restore
 * start
 * stop
 * sync
 * unmount
 * unpause

The *pod* event type will report the follow statuses:
 * create
 * kill
 * pause
 * remove
 * start
 * stop
 * unpause

The *image* event type will report the following statuses:
 * loadFromArchive,
 * mount
 * pull
 * push
 * remove
 * save
 * tag
 * unmount
 * untag

The *system* type will report the following statuses:
 * refresh
 * renumber

The *volume* type will report the following statuses:
 * create
 * prune
 * remove

#### Verbose Create Events

Setting `events_container_create_inspect_data=true` in containers.conf(5) instructs Podman to create more verbose container-create events which include a JSON payload with detailed information about the containers.  The JSON payload is identical to the one of podman-container-inspect(1).  The associated field in journald is named `PODMAN_CONTAINER_INSPECT_DATA`.

## OPTIONS

#### **--filter**, **-f**=*filter*

Filter events that are displayed.  They must be in the format of "filter=value".  The following
filters are supported:
 * container=name_or_id
 * event=event_status (described above)
 * image=name_or_id
 * label=key=value
 * pod=name_or_id
 * volume=name_or_id
 * type=event_type (described above)

In the case where an ID is used, the ID may be in its full or shortened form.  The "die" event is mapped to "died" for Docker compatibility.

#### **--format**

Format the output to JSON Lines or using the given Go template.

| **Placeholder**    | **Description**                               |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| .Attributes        | created_at, _by, labels, and more (map[])     |
| .ContainerExitCode | Exit code (int)                               |
| .Details ...       | Internal structure, not actually useful       |
| .HealthStatus      | Health Status (string)                        |
| .ID                | Container ID (full 64-bit SHA)                |
| .Image             | Name of image being run (string)              |
| .Name              | Container name (string)                       |
| .Network           | Name of network being used (string)           |
| .Status            | Event status (e.g., create, start, died, ...) |
| .Time              | Event timestamp (string)                      |
| .Type              | Event type (e.g., image, container, pod, ...) |

#### **--help**

Print usage statement.

#### **--no-trunc**

Do not truncate the output (default *true*).

#### **--since**=*timestamp*

Show all events created since the given timestamp


#### **--until**=*timestamp*

Show all events created until the given timestamp

The *since* and *until* values can be RFC3339Nano time stamps or a Go duration string such as 10m, 5h. If no
*since* or *until* values are provided, only new events will be shown.

## JOURNALD IDENTIFIERS

The journald events-backend of Podman uses the following journald identifiers.  You can use the identifiers to filter Podman events directly with `journalctl`.

| **Identifier**                | **Description**                                         |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER             | Always set to "podman"                                  |
| PODMAN_EVENT                  | The event status as described above                     |
| PODMAN_TYPE                   | The event type as described above                       |
| PODMAN_TIME                   | The time stamp when the event was written               |
| PODMAN_NAME                   | Name of the event object (e.g., container, image)       |
| PODMAN_ID                     | ID of the event object (e.g., container, image)         |
| PODMAN_EXIT_CODE              | Exit code of the container                              |
| PODMAN_POD_ID                 | Pod ID of the container                                 |
| PODMAN_LABELS                 | Labels of the container                                 |
| PODMAN_HEALTH_STATUS          | Health status of the container                          |
| PODMAN_CONTAINER_INSPECT_DATA | The JSON payload of `podman-inspect` as described above |
| PODMAN_NETWORK_NAME           | The name of the network                                 |

## EXAMPLES

Showing Podman events
```
$ podman events
2019-03-02 10:33:42.312377447 -0600 CST container create 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
2019-03-02 10:33:46.958768077 -0600 CST container init 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
2019-03-02 10:33:46.973661968 -0600 CST container start 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
2019-03-02 10:33:50.833761479 -0600 CST container stop 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
2019-03-02 10:33:51.047104966 -0600 CST container cleanup 34503c192940 (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=friendly_allen)
```

Show only Podman create events
```
$ podman events -f event=create
2019-03-02 10:36:01.375685062 -0600 CST container create 20dc581f6fbf (image=docker.io/library/alpine:latest, name=sharp_morse)
2019-03-02 10:36:08.561188337 -0600 CST container create 58e7e002344c (image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1, name=3e701f270d54-infra)
2019-03-02 10:36:13.146899437 -0600 CST volume create cad6dc50e087 (image=, name=cad6dc50e0879568e7d656bd004bd343d6035e7fc4024e1711506fe2fd459e6f)
2019-03-02 10:36:29.978806894 -0600 CST container create d81e30f1310f (image=docker.io/library/busybox:latest, name=musing_newton)
```

Show only Podman pod create events
```
$ podman events --filter event=create --filter type=pod
2019-03-02 10:44:29.601746633 -0600 CST pod create 1df5ebca7b44 (image=, name=confident_hawking)
2019-03-02 10:44:42.374637304 -0600 CST pod create ca731231718e (image=, name=webapp)
2019-03-02 10:44:47.486759133 -0600 CST pod create 71e807fc3a8e (image=, name=reverent_swanson)
```

Show only Podman events created in the last five minutes:
```
$ sudo podman events --since 5m
2019-03-02 10:44:29.598835409 -0600 CST container create b629d10d3831 (image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1, name=1df5ebca7b44-infra)
2019-03-02 10:44:29.601746633 -0600 CST pod create 1df5ebca7b44 (image=, name=confident_hawking)
2019-03-02 10:44:42.371100253 -0600 CST container create 170a0f457d00 (image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1, name=ca731231718e-infra)
2019-03-02 10:44:42.374637304 -0600 CST pod create ca731231718e (image=, name=webapp)
```

Show Podman events in JSON Lines format
```
$ podman events --format json
{"ID":"683b0909d556a9c02fa8cd2b61c3531a965db42158627622d1a67b391964d519","Image":"localhost/myshdemo:latest","Name":"agitated_diffie","Status":"cleanup","Time":"2019-04-27T22:47:00.849932843-04:00","Type":"container"}
{"ID":"a0f8ab051bfd43f9c5141a8a2502139707e4b38d98ac0872e57c5315381e88ad","Image":"docker.io/library/alpine:latest","Name":"friendly_tereshkova","Status":"unmount","Time":"2019-04-28T13:43:38.063017276-04:00","Type":"container"}
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)**

## HISTORY
March 2019, Originally compiled by Brent Baude <bbaude@redhat.com>
