docs/source/markdown/podman-machine-inspect.1.md, before:

% podman-machine-inspect 1

## NAME
podman\-machine\-inspect - Inspect one or more virtual machines

## SYNOPSIS
**podman machine inspect** [*options*] *name* ...

## DESCRIPTION

Inspect one or more virtual machines

Obtain greater detail about Podman virtual machines.  More than one virtual machine can be
inspected at once.

Rootless only.

## OPTIONS
#### **--format**

Print results with a Go template.

| **Placeholder**     | **Description**                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| .ConfigPath ...     | Machine configuration file location                   |
| .ConnectionInfo ... | Machine connection information                        |
| .Created            | Machine creation time (string, ISO3601)               |
| .Image ...          | Machine image config                                  |
| .LastUp             | Time when machine was last booted                     |
| .Name               | Name of the machine                                   |
| .Resources ...      | Resources used by the machine                         |
| .SSHConfig ...      | SSH configuration info for communitating with machine |
| .State ...          | Machine state                                         |
| .UserModeNetworking | Whether this machine uses user-mode networking        |

#### **--help**

Print usage statement.

## EXAMPLES

```
$ podman machine inspect podman-machine-default
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-machine(1)](podman-machine.1.md)**

## HISTORY
April 2022, Originally compiled by Brent Baude <bbaude@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Document podman-machine-default behavior
When no name arg is given to Podman machine commands, Podman assumes the machine name is podman-machine-default. Document this behavior.

Signed-off-by: Ashley Cui <acui@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/podman-machine-inspect.1.md, after:

% podman-machine-inspect 1

## NAME
podman\-machine\-inspect - Inspect one or more virtual machines

## SYNOPSIS
**podman machine inspect** [*options*] [*name*] ...

## DESCRIPTION

Inspect one or more virtual machines

Obtain greater detail about Podman virtual machines. More than one virtual machine can be
inspected at once.

The default machine name is `podman-machine-default`. If a machine name is not specified as an argument,
then `podman-machine-default` will be inspected.

Rootless only.

## OPTIONS
#### **--format**

Print results with a Go template.

| **Placeholder**     | **Description**                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| .ConfigPath ...     | Machine configuration file location                   |
| .ConnectionInfo ... | Machine connection information                        |
| .Created            | Machine creation time (string, ISO3601)               |
| .Image ...          | Machine image config                                  |
| .LastUp             | Time when machine was last booted                     |
| .Name               | Name of the machine                                   |
| .Resources ...      | Resources used by the machine                         |
| .SSHConfig ...      | SSH configuration info for communitating with machine |
| .State ...          | Machine state                                         |
| .UserModeNetworking | Whether this machine uses user-mode networking        |

#### **--help**

Print usage statement.

## EXAMPLES

```
$ podman machine inspect podman-machine-default
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-machine(1)](podman-machine.1.md)**

## HISTORY
April 2022, Originally compiled by Brent Baude <bbaude@redhat.com>
