docs/source/markdown/podman-system-reset.1.md, before:

% podman-system-reset(1)

## NAME
podman\-system\-reset - Reset storage back to initial state

## SYNOPSIS
**podman system reset** [*options*]

## DESCRIPTION
**podman system reset** removes all pods, containers, images and volumes.

This command must be run **before** changing any of the following fields in the
`containers.conf` or `storage.conf` files: `driver`, `static_dir`, `tmp_dir`
or `volume_path`.

`podman system reset` reads the current configuration and attempts to remove all
of the relevant configurations. If the administrator modified the configuration files first,
`podman system reset` might not be able to clean up the previous storage.

## OPTIONS
#### **--force**, **-f**

Do not prompt for confirmation

#### **--help**, **-h**

Print usage statement

## EXAMPLES

### Switching rootless user from VFS driver to overlay with fuse-overlayfs

If the user ran rootless containers without having the `fuse-overlayfs` program
installed, podman defaults to the `vfs` storage in their home directory. If they
want to switch to use fuse-overlay, they must install the fuse-overlayfs
package. The user needs to reset the storage to use overlayfs by default.
Execute `podman system reset` as the user first to remove the VFS storage. Now
the user can edit the `/etc/containers/storage.conf` to make any changes if
necessary. If the system's default was already `overlay`, then no changes are
necessary to switch to fuse-overlayfs. Podman looks for the existence of
fuse-overlayfs to use it when set in the `overlay` driver, only falling back to vfs
if the program does not exist. Users can run `podman info` to ensure Podman is
using fuse-overlayfs and the overlay driver.

## SEE ALSO
`podman(1)`, `podman-system(1)`, `fuse-overlayfs(1)`, `containers-storage.conf(5)`

## HISTORY
November 2019, Originally compiled by Dan Walsh (dwalsh at redhat dot com)

Commit message:

[v3.4] system reset: show graphRoot/runRoot before removal
Backport of commit 6aaf6a28435c.

system reset it says it will delete containers, images, networks, etc...
However it will also delete the graphRoot and runRoot directories.
Normally this is not an issue, however in same cases these directories
were set to the users home directory or some other important system
directory.

As first step simply show the directories that are configured and thus
will be deleted by reset. As future step we could implement some
safeguard will will not delete some known important directories however
I tried to keep it simple for now.

[NO NEW TESTS NEEDED]

see #18349, #18295, and #19870

Signed-off-by: Valentin Rothberg <vrothberg@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/podman-system-reset.1.md, after:

% podman-system-reset(1)

## NAME
podman\-system\-reset - Reset storage back to initial state

## SYNOPSIS
**podman system reset** [*options*]

## DESCRIPTION
**podman system reset** removes all pods, containers, images and volumes.

This command must be run **before** changing any of the following fields in the
`containers.conf` or `storage.conf` files: `driver`, `static_dir`, `tmp_dir`
or `volume_path`.
It also removes the configured graphRoot and runRoot directories. Make sure
these are not set to some important directory.

`podman system reset` reads the current configuration and attempts to remove all
of the relevant configurations. If the administrator modified the configuration files first,
`podman system reset` might not be able to clean up the previous storage.

## OPTIONS
#### **--force**, **-f**

Do not prompt for confirmation

#### **--help**, **-h**

Print usage statement

## EXAMPLES

### Switching rootless user from VFS driver to overlay with fuse-overlayfs

If the user ran rootless containers without having the `fuse-overlayfs` program
installed, podman defaults to the `vfs` storage in their home directory. If they
want to switch to use fuse-overlay, they must install the fuse-overlayfs
package. The user needs to reset the storage to use overlayfs by default.
Execute `podman system reset` as the user first to remove the VFS storage. Now
the user can edit the `/etc/containers/storage.conf` to make any changes if
necessary. If the system's default was already `overlay`, then no changes are
necessary to switch to fuse-overlayfs. Podman looks for the existence of
fuse-overlayfs to use it when set in the `overlay` driver, only falling back to vfs
if the program does not exist. Users can run `podman info` to ensure Podman is
using fuse-overlayfs and the overlay driver.

## SEE ALSO
`podman(1)`, `podman-system(1)`, `fuse-overlayfs(1)`, `containers-storage.conf(5)`

## HISTORY
November 2019, Originally compiled by Dan Walsh (dwalsh at redhat dot com)
