docs/source/markdown/podman-volume-prune.1.md, before:

% podman-volume-prune 1

## NAME
podman\-volume\-prune - Remove all unused volumes

## SYNOPSIS
**podman volume prune** [*options*]

## DESCRIPTION

Removes unused volumes. By default all unused volumes are removed, the **--filter** flag can
be used to filter specific volumes. Users are prompted to confirm the removal of all the
unused volumes. To bypass the confirmation, use the **--force** flag.


## OPTIONS

#### **--filter**

Provide filter values.

The *filters* argument format is of `key=value`. If there is more than one *filter*, then pass multiple OPTIONS: **--filter** *foo=bar* **--filter** *bif=baz*.

Supported filters:

| Filter      | Description                                                                                                |
|:-----------:|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| dangling    | [Bool] Only remove volumes not referenced by any containers                                                |
| driver      | [String] Only remove volumes with the given driver                                                         |
| label       | [String] Only remove volumes, with (or without, in the case of label!=[...] is used) the specified labels. |
| name        | [String] Only remove volume with the given name                                                            |
| opt         | [String] Only remove volumes created with the given options                                                |
| scope       | [String] Only remove volumes with the given scope                                                          |
| until       | [DateTime] Only remove volumes created before given timestamp.                                             |
| after/since | [Volume] Filter by volumes created after the given VOLUME (name or tag)                                    |

The `label` *filter* accepts two formats. One is the `label`=*key* or `label`=*key*=*value*, which removes volumes with the specified labels. The other format is the `label!`=*key* or `label!`=*key*=*value*, which removes volumes without the specified labels.

The `until` *filter* can be Unix timestamps, date formatted timestamps, or Go duration strings (e.g. 10m, 1h30m) computed relative to the machine’s time.

#### **--force**, **-f**

Do not prompt for confirmation.

#### **--help**

Print usage statement


## EXAMPLES

```
$ podman volume prune

$ podman volume prune --force

$ podman volume prune --filter label=mylabel=mylabelvalue
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-volume(1)](podman-volume.1.md)**

## HISTORY
November 2018, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Add information about --latest support on man pages
On Mac and Windows systems the --latest option is not supported
this PR mentions this fact in the examples section of the man page.
Also added documentation and consistency to the man pages examples
sections.

Signed-off-by: Daniel J Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/podman-volume-prune.1.md, after:

% podman-volume-prune 1

## NAME
podman\-volume\-prune - Remove all unused volumes

## SYNOPSIS
**podman volume prune** [*options*]

## DESCRIPTION

Removes unused volumes. By default all unused volumes are removed, the **--filter** flag can
be used to filter specific volumes. Users are prompted to confirm the removal of all the
unused volumes. To bypass the confirmation, use the **--force** flag.


## OPTIONS

#### **--filter**

Provide filter values.

The *filters* argument format is of `key=value`. If there is more than one *filter*, then pass multiple OPTIONS: **--filter** *foo=bar* **--filter** *bif=baz*.

Supported filters:

| Filter      | Description                                                                                                |
|:-----------:|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| dangling    | [Bool] Only remove volumes not referenced by any containers                                                |
| driver      | [String] Only remove volumes with the given driver                                                         |
| label       | [String] Only remove volumes, with (or without, in the case of label!=[...] is used) the specified labels. |
| name        | [String] Only remove volume with the given name                                                            |
| opt         | [String] Only remove volumes created with the given options                                                |
| scope       | [String] Only remove volumes with the given scope                                                          |
| until       | [DateTime] Only remove volumes created before given timestamp.                                             |
| after/since | [Volume] Filter by volumes created after the given VOLUME (name or tag)                                    |

The `label` *filter* accepts two formats. One is the `label`=*key* or `label`=*key*=*value*, which removes volumes with the specified labels. The other format is the `label!`=*key* or `label!`=*key*=*value*, which removes volumes without the specified labels.

The `until` *filter* can be Unix timestamps, date formatted timestamps, or Go duration strings (e.g. 10m, 1h30m) computed relative to the machine’s time.

#### **--force**, **-f**

Do not prompt for confirmation.

#### **--help**

Print usage statement


## EXAMPLES


Prune all unused volumes.
```
$ podman volume prune
```

Prune all volumes. Note: this command will also remove all containers that are using a volume.
```
$ podman volume prune --force
```

Prune all volumes that contain the specified label.
```
$ podman volume prune --filter label=mylabel=mylabelvalue
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-volume(1)](podman-volume.1.md)**

## HISTORY
November 2018, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>
