docs/source/markdown/podman-machine-rm.1.md, before:

% podman-machine-rm 1

## NAME
podman\-machine\-rm - Remove a virtual machine

## SYNOPSIS
**podman machine rm** [*options*] [*name*]

## DESCRIPTION

Remove a virtual machine and its related files.  What is actually deleted
depends on the virtual machine type.  For all virtual machines, the generated
SSH keys and the podman system connection are deleted.  The ignition files
generated for that VM are also removed as is its image file on the filesystem.

Users get a display of what will be deleted and are required to confirm unless the option `--force`
is used.

Rootless only.

## OPTIONS

#### **--force**, **-f**

Stop and delete without confirmation.

#### **--help**

Print usage statement.

#### **--save-ignition**

Do not delete the generated ignition file.

#### **--save-image**

Do not delete the VM image.

#### **--save-keys**

Do not delete the SSH keys for the VM.  The system connection is always
deleted.

## EXAMPLES

Remove a VM named "test1":

```
$ podman machine rm test1

The following files will be deleted:

/home/user/.ssh/test1
/home/user/.ssh/test1.pub
/home/user/.config/containers/podman/machine/qemu/test1.ign
/home/user/.local/share/containers/podman/machine/qemu/test1_fedora-coreos-33.20210315.1.0-qemu.x86_64.qcow2
/home/user/.config/containers/podman/machine/qemu/test1.json

Are you sure you want to continue? [y/N] y
```

```
$ podman machine rm -f test1
$
```
## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-machine(1)](podman-machine.1.md)**

## HISTORY
March 2021, Originally compiled by Ashley Cui <acui@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Document podman-machine-default behavior
When no name arg is given to Podman machine commands, Podman assumes the machine name is podman-machine-default. Document this behavior.

Signed-off-by: Ashley Cui <acui@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/podman-machine-rm.1.md, after:

% podman-machine-rm 1

## NAME
podman\-machine\-rm - Remove a virtual machine

## SYNOPSIS
**podman machine rm** [*options*] [*name*]

## DESCRIPTION

Remove a virtual machine and its related files.  What is actually deleted
depends on the virtual machine type.  For all virtual machines, the generated
SSH keys and the podman system connection are deleted.  The ignition files
generated for that VM are also removed as is its image file on the filesystem.

Users get a display of what will be deleted and are required to confirm unless the option `--force`
is used.

The default machine name is `podman-machine-default`. If a machine name is not specified as an argument,
then `podman-machine-default` will be removed.

Rootless only.

## OPTIONS

#### **--force**, **-f**

Stop and delete without confirmation.

#### **--help**

Print usage statement.

#### **--save-ignition**

Do not delete the generated ignition file.

#### **--save-image**

Do not delete the VM image.

#### **--save-keys**

Do not delete the SSH keys for the VM.  The system connection is always
deleted.

## EXAMPLES

Remove a VM named "test1":

```
$ podman machine rm test1

The following files will be deleted:

/home/user/.ssh/test1
/home/user/.ssh/test1.pub
/home/user/.config/containers/podman/machine/qemu/test1.ign
/home/user/.local/share/containers/podman/machine/qemu/test1_fedora-coreos-33.20210315.1.0-qemu.x86_64.qcow2
/home/user/.config/containers/podman/machine/qemu/test1.json

Are you sure you want to continue? [y/N] y
```

```
$ podman machine rm -f test1
$
```
## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-machine(1)](podman-machine.1.md)**

## HISTORY
March 2021, Originally compiled by Ashley Cui <acui@redhat.com>
