docs/source/markdown/podman-network.1.md, before:

% podman-network 1

## NAME
podman\-network - Manage Podman networks

## SYNOPSIS
**podman network** *subcommand*

## DESCRIPTION
The network command manages networks for Podman.

Podman supports two network backends [Netavark](https://github.com/containers/netavark)
and [CNI](https://www.cni.dev/). Netavark is the default network backend and was added in Podman v4.0. CNI will be
deprecated in the future in preference of Netavark. To configure
the network backend use the `network_backend`key under the `[Network]` in
**[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)**.
New systems should use netavark by default, to check what backed is used run
`podman info --format {{.Host.NetworkBackend}}`.

All network commands work for both backends but CNI and Netavark use different config files
so networks have to be created again after a backend change.

## COMMANDS

| Command    | Man Page                                                       | Description                                                     |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| connect    | [podman-network-connect(1)](podman-network-connect.1.md)       | Connect a container to a network                                |
| create     | [podman-network-create(1)](podman-network-create.1.md)         | Create a Podman network                                         |
| disconnect | [podman-network-disconnect(1)](podman-network-disconnect.1.md) | Disconnect a container from a network                           |
| exists     | [podman-network-exists(1)](podman-network-exists.1.md)         | Check if the given network exists                               |
| inspect    | [podman-network-inspect(1)](podman-network-inspect.1.md)       | Displays the network configuration for one or more networks     |
| ls         | [podman-network-ls(1)](podman-network-ls.1.md)                 | Display a summary of networks                                   |
| prune      | [podman-network-prune(1)](podman-network-prune.1.md)           | Remove all unused networks                                      |
| reload     | [podman-network-reload(1)](podman-network-reload.1.md)         | Reload network configuration for containers                     |
| rm         | [podman-network-rm(1)](podman-network-rm.1.md)                 | Remove one or more networks                                     |
| update     | [podman-network-update(1)](podman-network-update.1.md)         | Update an existing Podman network                               |

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)**

Commit message:

[CI:DOCS] Add network subnets info to network man page
Adds information to the network command to explain how
to change the default options for the bridge or IP.

This steals very liberally from @Luap99 's blog post:
https://blog.podman.io/2023/02/default-podman-network-subnets/

This addresses: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-9296

[NO NEW TESTS NEEDED]

Signed-off-by: tomsweeneyredhat <tsweeney@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/podman-network.1.md, after:

% podman-network 1

## NAME
podman\-network - Manage Podman networks

## SYNOPSIS
**podman network** *subcommand*

## DESCRIPTION
The network command manages networks for Podman.

Podman supports two network backends [Netavark](https://github.com/containers/netavark)
and [CNI](https://www.cni.dev/). Netavark is the default network backend and was added in Podman v4.0. CNI will be
deprecated in the future in preference of Netavark. To configure
the network backend use the `network_backend`key under the `[Network]` in
**[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)**.
New systems should use netavark by default, to check what backed is used run
`podman info --format {{.Host.NetworkBackend}}`.

All network commands work for both backends but CNI and Netavark use different config files
so networks have to be created again after a backend change.

## COMMANDS

| Command    | Man Page                                                       | Description                                                     |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| connect    | [podman-network-connect(1)](podman-network-connect.1.md)       | Connect a container to a network                                |
| create     | [podman-network-create(1)](podman-network-create.1.md)         | Create a Podman network                                         |
| disconnect | [podman-network-disconnect(1)](podman-network-disconnect.1.md) | Disconnect a container from a network                           |
| exists     | [podman-network-exists(1)](podman-network-exists.1.md)         | Check if the given network exists                               |
| inspect    | [podman-network-inspect(1)](podman-network-inspect.1.md)       | Displays the network configuration for one or more networks     |
| ls         | [podman-network-ls(1)](podman-network-ls.1.md)                 | Display a summary of networks                                   |
| prune      | [podman-network-prune(1)](podman-network-prune.1.md)           | Remove all unused networks                                      |
| reload     | [podman-network-reload(1)](podman-network-reload.1.md)         | Reload network configuration for containers                     |
| rm         | [podman-network-rm(1)](podman-network-rm.1.md)                 | Remove one or more networks                                     |
| update     | [podman-network-update(1)](podman-network-update.1.md)         | Update an existing Podman network                               |

## SUBNET NOTES
Podman requires specific default IPs and, thus, network subnets.  The default values used by Podman can be modified in the **[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)** file.

### Podman network
The default bridge network (called `podman`) uses 10.88.0.0/16 as a subnet. When Podman runs as root, the `podman` network is used as default.  It is the same as adding the option `--network bridge` or `--network podman`. This subnet can be changed in **[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)** under the [network] section. Set the `default subnet` to any subnet that is free in the environment. The name of the default network can also be changed from `podman` to another name using the default network key. Note that this should only be done when no containers are running.

### Slirp4netns
When Podman is run as rootless, the internet connectivity is provided with slirp4netns by default. Slirp4nents uses 10.0.2.0/24 for its default network. This can also be changed in **[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)** but under the `[engine]` section. Use the `network_cmd_options` key and add `["cidr=X.X.X.X/24"]` as a value. Note that slirp4netns needs a network prefix size between 1 and 25. This option accepts an array, so more options can be added in a comma-separated string as described on the **[podman-network-create(1)](podman-network-create.1.md)** man page. To change the CIDR for just one container, specify it on the cli using the `--network` opiton like this: `--network slirp4netns:cidr=192.168.1.0/24`.

When using the default network as rootless, i.e. --network podman/bridge, then it also uses the same subnet as described above in addition to the slirp4netns subnet.

### Podman network create
When a new network is created with a `podman network create` command, and no subnet is given with the --subnet option, Podman will start picking a free subnet from 10.89.0.0/24 to 10.255.255.0/24. Use the `default_subnet_pools` option under the `[network]` section in **[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)** to change the range and/or size that is assigned by default.

## SEE ALSO
**[podman(1)](podman.1.md)**, **[podman-network-create(1)](podman-network-create.1.md)**, **[containers.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containers.conf.5.md)**
