.TH pypodman 1 2018-07-20 0.7.3
.SH NAME
pypodman \- CLI management tool for containers and images
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]pypodman\f[] [\f[I]global options\f[]] \f[I]command\f[] [\f[I]options\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
pypodman is a simple client only tool to help with debugging issues when daemons
such as CRI runtime and the kubelet are not responding or failing.
.P
pypodman uses a VarLink API to commicate with a podman service running on either
the local or remote machine. pypodman uses ssh to create secure tunnels when
communicating with a remote service.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.PP
\f[B]\[en]help, \-h\f[]
.PP
Print usage statement.
.PP
\f[B]\[en]version\f[]
.PP
Print program version number and exit.
.PP
\f[B]\[en]config\-home\f[]
.PP
Directory that will be namespaced with \f[C]pypodman\f[] to hold
\f[C]pypodman.conf\f[].
See FILES below for more details.
.PP
\f[B]\[en]log\-level\f[]
.PP
Log events above specified level: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING (default), ERROR,
or CRITICAL.
.PP
\f[B]\[en]run\-dir\f[]
.PP
Directory that will be namespaced with \f[C]pypodman\f[] to hold local socket
bindings. The default is `\f[C]$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR\\\f[].
.PP
\f[B]\[en]user\f[]
.PP
Authenicating user on remote host. \f[C]pypodman\f[] defaults to the logged in
user.
.PP
\f[B]\[en]host\f[]
.PP
Name of remote host. There is no default, if not given \f[C]pypodman\f[]
attempts to connect to \f[C]\-\-remote\-socket\-path\f[] on local host.
.PP
\f[B]\[en]port\f[]
.PP
The optional port for \f[C]ssh\f[] to connect tunnel to on remote host.
Default is None and will allow \f[C]ssh\f[] to follow it's default configuration.
.PP
\f[B]\[en]remote\-socket\-path\f[]
.PP
Path on remote host for podman service's \f[C]AF_UNIX\f[] socket. The default is
\f[C]/run/podman/io.podman\f[].
.PP
\f[B]\[en]identity\-file\f[]
.PP
The optional \f[C]ssh\f[] identity file to authenicate when tunnelling to remote
host. Default is None and will allow \f[C]ssh\f[] to follow it's default methods
for resolving the identity and private key using the logged in user.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
See podman(1) (podman.1.md)
.SH FILES
.PP
\f[B]pypodman/pypodman.conf\f[]
(\f[C]Any\ element\ of\ XDG_CONFIG_DIRS\f[] and/or
\f[C]XDG_CONFIG_HOME\f[] and/or \f[B]\[en]config\-home\f[])
.PP
pypodman.conf is one or more configuration files for running the pypodman
command. pypodman.conf is a TOML file with the stanza \f[C][default]\f[], with a
map of \f[C]option: value\f[].
.PP
pypodman follows the XDG (freedesktop.org) conventions for resolving it's
configuration. The list below are read from top to bottom with later items
overwriting earlier. Any missing items are ignored.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]pypodman/pypodman.conf\f[] from any path element in
\f[C]XDG_CONFIG_DIRS\f[] or \f[C]\\etc\\xdg\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]XDG_CONFIG_HOME\f[] or $HOME/.config + \f[C]pypodman/pypodman.conf\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
From \f[C]\-\-config\-home\f[] command line option + \f[C]pypodman/pypodman.conf\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
From environment variable prefixed with PODMAN_, for example: PODMAN_RUN_DIR
.IP \[bu] 2
From command line option, for example: \[en]run\-dir
.PP
This should provide Operators the ability to setup basic configurations
and allow users to customize them.
.PP
\f[B]XDG_RUNTIME_DIR\f[] (\f[C]XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/io.podman\f[])
.PP
Directory where pypodman stores non\-essential runtime files and other file
objects (such as sockets, named pipes, \&...).
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]podman(1)\f[], \f[C]libpod(8)\f[]
