docs/source/Commands.rst, before:

.. include:: includes.rst

Commands
========

:doc:`Podman <markdown/podman.1>` (Pod Manager) Global Options, Environment Variables, Exit Codes, Configuration Files, and more

:doc:`attach <markdown/podman-attach.1>` Attach to a running container

:doc:`auto-update <markdown/podman-auto-update.1>` Auto update containers according to their auto-update policy

:doc:`build <markdown/podman-build.1>` Build an image using instructions from Containerfiles

:doc:`commit <markdown/podman-commit.1>` Create new image based on the changed container

:doc:`container <markdown/podman-container.1>` Manage Containers

:doc:`cp <markdown/podman-cp.1>` Copy files/folders between a container and the local filesystem

:doc:`create <markdown/podman-create.1>` Create but do not start a container

:doc:`diff <markdown/podman-diff.1>` Inspect changes on container's file systems

:doc:`events <markdown/podman-events.1>` Show podman events

:doc:`exec <markdown/podman-exec.1>` Run a process in a running container

:doc:`export <markdown/podman-export.1>` Export container's filesystem contents as a tar archive

:doc:`generate <markdown/podman-generate.1>` Generated structured data

:doc:`healthcheck <markdown/podman-healthcheck.1>` Manage Healthcheck

:doc:`history <markdown/podman-history.1>` Show history of a specified image

:doc:`image <markdown/podman-image.1>` Manage images

:doc:`images <markdown/podman-images.1>` List images in local storage

:doc:`import <markdown/podman-import.1>` Import a tarball to create a filesystem image

:doc:`info <markdown/podman-info.1>` Display podman system information

:doc:`init <markdown/podman-init.1>` Initialize one or more containers

:doc:`inspect <markdown/podman-inspect.1>` Display the configuration of a container or image

:doc:`kill <markdown/podman-kill.1>` Kill one or more running containers with a specific signal

:doc:`kube <markdown/podman-kube.1>` Play a pod

:doc:`load <markdown/podman-load.1>` Load an image from container archive

:doc:`login <markdown/podman-login.1>` Login to a container registry

:doc:`logout <markdown/podman-logout.1>` Logout of a container registry

:doc:`logs <markdown/podman-logs.1>` Fetch the logs of a container

:doc:`machine <markdown/podman-machine.1>` Manage podman's virtual machine

:doc:`manifest <markdown/podman-manifest.1>` Create and manipulate manifest lists and image indexes

:doc:`mount <markdown/podman-mount.1>` Mount a working container's root filesystem

:doc:`network <markdown/podman-network.1>` Manage Networks

:doc:`pause <markdown/podman-pause.1>` Pause all the processes in one or more containers

:doc:`pod <markdown/podman-pod.1>` Manage pods

:doc:`port <markdown/podman-port.1>` List port mappings or a specific mapping for the container

:doc:`ps <markdown/podman-ps.1>` List containers

:doc:`pull <markdown/podman-pull.1>` Pull an image from a registry

:doc:`push <markdown/podman-push.1>` Push an image to a specified destination

:doc:`rename <markdown/podman-rename.1>` Rename an existing container

:doc:`restart <markdown/podman-restart.1>` Restart one or more containers

:doc:`rm <markdown/podman-rm.1>` Remove one or more containers

:doc:`rmi <markdown/podman-rmi.1>` Removes one or more images from local storage

:doc:`run <markdown/podman-run.1>` Run a command in a new container

:doc:`save <markdown/podman-save.1>` Save image to an archive

:doc:`search <markdown/podman-search.1>` Search registry for image

:doc:`secret <markdown/podman-secret.1>` Manage podman secrets

:doc:`start <markdown/podman-start.1>` Start one or more containers

:doc:`stats <markdown/podman-stats.1>` Display a live stream of container resource usage statistics

:doc:`stop <markdown/podman-stop.1>` Stop one or more containers

:doc:`system <markdown/podman-system.1>` Manage podman

:doc:`tag <markdown/podman-tag.1>` Add an additional name to a local image

:doc:`top <markdown/podman-top.1>` Display the running processes of a container

:doc:`unmount <markdown/podman-unmount.1>` Unmounts working container's root filesystem

:doc:`unpause <markdown/podman-unpause.1>` Unpause the processes in one or more containers

:doc:`unshare <markdown/podman-unshare.1>` Run a command in a modified user namespace

:doc:`untag <markdown/podman-untag.1>` Removes one or more names from a locally-stored image

:doc:`version <markdown/podman-version.1>` Display the Podman Version Information

:doc:`volume <markdown/podman-volume.1>` Manage volumes

:doc:`wait <markdown/podman-wait.1>` Block on one or more containers

Commit message:

man pages and command help: clean up descriptions
Short description in man pages:
* Use imperative form

Command help (cobra.Command.Short):
* Capitalize first letter
* Use imperative form
* Remove ending full stop when the short description
  only contains one sentence without any commas

Command help (cobra.Command.Long):
* Capitalize first letter unless the sentence starts
  with a command "podman command ..."
* Use imperative form when the long description is
  identical or almost identical to the short description.
  This modification was only done in a few places.

Command tables:
* Use imperative form in the "Description" column

[NO NEW TESTS NEEDED]

Signed-off-by: Erik Sjölund <erik.sjolund@gmail.com>

docs/source/Commands.rst, after:

.. include:: includes.rst

Commands
========

:doc:`Podman <markdown/podman.1>` (Pod Manager) Global Options, Environment Variables, Exit Codes, Configuration Files, and more

:doc:`attach <markdown/podman-attach.1>` Attach to a running container

:doc:`auto-update <markdown/podman-auto-update.1>` Auto update containers according to their auto-update policy

:doc:`build <markdown/podman-build.1>` Build an image using instructions from Containerfiles

:doc:`commit <markdown/podman-commit.1>` Create new image based on the changed container

:doc:`container <markdown/podman-container.1>` Manage Containers

:doc:`cp <markdown/podman-cp.1>` Copy files/folders between a container and the local filesystem

:doc:`create <markdown/podman-create.1>` Create but do not start a container

:doc:`diff <markdown/podman-diff.1>` Inspect changes on container's file systems

:doc:`events <markdown/podman-events.1>` Show podman events

:doc:`exec <markdown/podman-exec.1>` Run a process in a running container

:doc:`export <markdown/podman-export.1>` Export container's filesystem contents as a tar archive

:doc:`generate <markdown/podman-generate.1>` Generated structured data

:doc:`healthcheck <markdown/podman-healthcheck.1>` Manage Healthcheck

:doc:`history <markdown/podman-history.1>` Show history of a specified image

:doc:`image <markdown/podman-image.1>` Manage images

:doc:`images <markdown/podman-images.1>` List images in local storage

:doc:`import <markdown/podman-import.1>` Import a tarball to create a filesystem image

:doc:`info <markdown/podman-info.1>` Display podman system information

:doc:`init <markdown/podman-init.1>` Initialize one or more containers

:doc:`inspect <markdown/podman-inspect.1>` Display the configuration of a container or image

:doc:`kill <markdown/podman-kill.1>` Kill one or more running containers with a specific signal

:doc:`kube <markdown/podman-kube.1>` Play a pod

:doc:`load <markdown/podman-load.1>` Load an image from container archive

:doc:`login <markdown/podman-login.1>` Log in to a container registry

:doc:`logout <markdown/podman-logout.1>` Log out of a container registry

:doc:`logs <markdown/podman-logs.1>` Fetch the logs of a container

:doc:`machine <markdown/podman-machine.1>` Manage podman's virtual machine

:doc:`manifest <markdown/podman-manifest.1>` Create and manipulate manifest lists and image indexes

:doc:`mount <markdown/podman-mount.1>` Mount a working container's root filesystem

:doc:`network <markdown/podman-network.1>` Manage Networks

:doc:`pause <markdown/podman-pause.1>` Pause all the processes in one or more containers

:doc:`pod <markdown/podman-pod.1>` Manage pods

:doc:`port <markdown/podman-port.1>` List port mappings or a specific mapping for the container

:doc:`ps <markdown/podman-ps.1>` List containers

:doc:`pull <markdown/podman-pull.1>` Pull an image from a registry

:doc:`push <markdown/podman-push.1>` Push an image to a specified destination

:doc:`rename <markdown/podman-rename.1>` Rename an existing container

:doc:`restart <markdown/podman-restart.1>` Restart one or more containers

:doc:`rm <markdown/podman-rm.1>` Remove one or more containers

:doc:`rmi <markdown/podman-rmi.1>` Remove one or more images from local storage

:doc:`run <markdown/podman-run.1>` Run a command in a new container

:doc:`save <markdown/podman-save.1>` Save image to an archive

:doc:`search <markdown/podman-search.1>` Search registry for image

:doc:`secret <markdown/podman-secret.1>` Manage podman secrets

:doc:`start <markdown/podman-start.1>` Start one or more containers

:doc:`stats <markdown/podman-stats.1>` Display a live stream of container resource usage statistics

:doc:`stop <markdown/podman-stop.1>` Stop one or more containers

:doc:`system <markdown/podman-system.1>` Manage podman

:doc:`tag <markdown/podman-tag.1>` Add an additional name to a local image

:doc:`top <markdown/podman-top.1>` Display the running processes of a container

:doc:`unmount <markdown/podman-unmount.1>` Unmount working container's root filesystem

:doc:`unpause <markdown/podman-unpause.1>` Unpause the processes in one or more containers

:doc:`unshare <markdown/podman-unshare.1>` Run a command in a modified user namespace

:doc:`untag <markdown/podman-untag.1>` Remove one or more names from a locally-stored image

:doc:`version <markdown/podman-version.1>` Display the Podman Version Information

:doc:`volume <markdown/podman-volume.1>` Manage volumes

:doc:`wait <markdown/podman-wait.1>` Block on one or more containers
