docs/source/markdown/options/mount.md, before:

####> This option file is used in:
####>   podman create, run
####> If file is edited, make sure the changes
####> are applicable to all of those.
#### **--mount**=*type=TYPE,TYPE-SPECIFIC-OPTION[,...]*

Attach a filesystem mount to the container

Current supported mount TYPEs are **bind**, **devpts**, **glob**, **image**, **ramfs**, **tmpfs** and **volume**. <sup>[[1]](#Footnote1)</sup>

       e.g.
       type=bind,source=/path/on/host,destination=/path/in/container

       type=bind,src=/path/on/host,dst=/path/in/container,relabel=shared

       type=bind,src=/path/on/host,dst=/path/in/container,relabel=shared,U=true

       type=devpts,destination=/dev/pts

       type=glob,src=/usr/lib/libfoo*,destination=/usr/lib,ro=true

       type=image,source=fedora,destination=/fedora-image,rw=true

       type=ramfs,tmpfs-size=512M,destination=/path/in/container

       type=tmpfs,tmpfs-size=512M,destination=/path/in/container

       type=tmpfs,destination=/path/in/container,noswap

       type=volume,source=vol1,destination=/path/in/container,ro=true

       Common Options:

	      · src, source: mount source spec for bind, glob, and volume. Mandatory for bind and glob.

	      · dst, destination, target: mount destination spec.

	      When source globs are specified without the destination directory,
              the files and directories are mounted with their complete path
	      within the container. When the destination is specified, the
	      files and directories matching the glob on the base file name
	      on the destination directory are mounted. The option
	      `type=glob,src=/foo*,destination=/tmp/bar` tells container engines
	      to mount host files matching /foo* to the /tmp/bar/
	      directory in the container.

       Options specific to volume:

	      · ro, readonly: true or false (default).

	      . U, chown: true or false (default). Change recursively the owner and group of the source volume based on the UID and GID of the container.

	      · idmap: true or false (default).  If specified, create an idmapped mount to the target user namespace in the container.
          The idmap option supports a custom mapping that can be different than the user namespace used by the container.
          The mapping can be specified after the idmap option like: `idmap=uids=0-1-10#10-11-10;gids=0-100-10`.  For each triplet, the first value is the
          start of the backing file system IDs that are mapped to the second value on the host.  The length of this mapping is given in the third value.
          Multiple ranges are separated with #.  If the specified mapping is prepended with a '@' then the mapping is considered relative to the container
          user namespace. The host ID for the mapping is changed to account for the relative position of the container user in the container user namespace.

       Options specific to image:

	      · rw, readwrite: true or false (default).

       Options specific to bind and glob:

	      · ro, readonly: true or false (default).

	      · bind-propagation: shared, slave, private, unbindable, rshared, rslave, runbindable, or rprivate(default). See also mount(2).

	      . bind-nonrecursive: do not set up a recursive bind mount. By default it is recursive.

	      . relabel: shared, private.

	      · idmap: true or false (default).  If specified, create an idmapped mount to the target user namespace in the container.

	      . U, chown: true or false (default). Change recursively the owner and group of the source volume based on the UID and GID of the container.

       Options specific to tmpfs and ramfs:

	      · ro, readonly: true or false (default).

	      · tmpfs-size: Size of the tmpfs/ramfs mount in bytes. Unlimited by default in Linux.

	      · tmpfs-mode: File mode of the tmpfs/ramfs in octal. (e.g. 700 or 0700.) Defaults to 1777 in Linux.

	      · tmpcopyup: Enable copyup from the image directory at the same location to the tmpfs/ramfs. Used by default.

	      · notmpcopyup: Disable copying files from the image to the tmpfs/ramfs.

	      . U, chown: true or false (default). Change recursively the owner and group of the source volume based on the UID and GID of the container.

       Options specific to devpts:

	      · uid: UID of the file owner (default 0).

	      · gid: GID of the file owner (default 0).

	      · mode: permission mask for the file (default 600).

	      · max: maximum number of PTYs (default 1048576).

Commit message:

new 'no-dereference' mount option
Add a new `no-dereference` mount option supported by crun 1.11+ to
re-create/copy a symlink if it's the source of a mount.  By default the
kernel will resolve the symlink on the host and mount the target.
As reported in #20098, there are use cases where the symlink structure
must be preserved by all means.

Fixes: #20098
Fixes: issues.redhat.com/browse/RUN-1935
Signed-off-by: Valentin Rothberg <vrothberg@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/options/mount.md, after:

####> This option file is used in:
####>   podman create, run
####> If file is edited, make sure the changes
####> are applicable to all of those.
#### **--mount**=*type=TYPE,TYPE-SPECIFIC-OPTION[,...]*

Attach a filesystem mount to the container

Current supported mount TYPEs are **bind**, **devpts**, **glob**, **image**, **ramfs**, **tmpfs** and **volume**. <sup>[[1]](#Footnote1)</sup>

       e.g.
       type=bind,source=/path/on/host,destination=/path/in/container

       type=bind,src=/path/on/host,dst=/path/in/container,relabel=shared

       type=bind,src=/path/on/host,dst=/path/in/container,relabel=shared,U=true

       type=devpts,destination=/dev/pts

       type=glob,src=/usr/lib/libfoo*,destination=/usr/lib,ro=true

       type=image,source=fedora,destination=/fedora-image,rw=true

       type=ramfs,tmpfs-size=512M,destination=/path/in/container

       type=tmpfs,tmpfs-size=512M,destination=/path/in/container

       type=tmpfs,destination=/path/in/container,noswap

       type=volume,source=vol1,destination=/path/in/container,ro=true

       Common Options:

	      · src, source: mount source spec for bind, glob, and volume. Mandatory for bind and glob.

	      · dst, destination, target: mount destination spec.

	      When source globs are specified without the destination directory,
              the files and directories are mounted with their complete path
	      within the container. When the destination is specified, the
	      files and directories matching the glob on the base file name
	      on the destination directory are mounted. The option
	      `type=glob,src=/foo*,destination=/tmp/bar` tells container engines
	      to mount host files matching /foo* to the /tmp/bar/
	      directory in the container.

       Options specific to volume:

	      · ro, readonly: true or false (default).

	      . U, chown: true or false (default). Change recursively the owner and group of the source volume based on the UID and GID of the container.

	      · idmap: true or false (default).  If specified, create an idmapped mount to the target user namespace in the container.
          The idmap option supports a custom mapping that can be different than the user namespace used by the container.
          The mapping can be specified after the idmap option like: `idmap=uids=0-1-10#10-11-10;gids=0-100-10`.  For each triplet, the first value is the
          start of the backing file system IDs that are mapped to the second value on the host.  The length of this mapping is given in the third value.
          Multiple ranges are separated with #.  If the specified mapping is prepended with a '@' then the mapping is considered relative to the container
          user namespace. The host ID for the mapping is changed to account for the relative position of the container user in the container user namespace.

       Options specific to image:

	      · rw, readwrite: true or false (default).

       Options specific to bind and glob:

	      · ro, readonly: true or false (default).

	      · bind-propagation: shared, slave, private, unbindable, rshared, rslave, runbindable, or rprivate(default). See also mount(2).

	      . bind-nonrecursive: do not set up a recursive bind mount. By default it is recursive.

	      . relabel: shared, private.

	      · idmap: true or false (default).  If specified, create an idmapped mount to the target user namespace in the container.

	      . U, chown: true or false (default). Change recursively the owner and group of the source volume based on the UID and GID of the container.

	      . no-dereference: do not dereference symlinks but copy the link source into the mount destination.

       Options specific to tmpfs and ramfs:

	      · ro, readonly: true or false (default).

	      · tmpfs-size: Size of the tmpfs/ramfs mount in bytes. Unlimited by default in Linux.

	      · tmpfs-mode: File mode of the tmpfs/ramfs in octal. (e.g. 700 or 0700.) Defaults to 1777 in Linux.

	      · tmpcopyup: Enable copyup from the image directory at the same location to the tmpfs/ramfs. Used by default.

	      · notmpcopyup: Disable copying files from the image to the tmpfs/ramfs.

	      . U, chown: true or false (default). Change recursively the owner and group of the source volume based on the UID and GID of the container.

       Options specific to devpts:

	      · uid: UID of the file owner (default 0).

	      · gid: GID of the file owner (default 0).

	      · mode: permission mask for the file (default 600).

	      · max: maximum number of PTYs (default 1048576).
