docs/source/markdown/options/network.md, before:

####> This option file is used in:
####>   podman create, kube play, pod create, run
####> If file is edited, make sure the changes
####> are applicable to all of those.
#### **--network**=*mode*, **--net**

Set the network mode for the <<container|pod>>.

Valid _mode_ values are:

- **bridge[:OPTIONS,...]**: Create a network stack on the default bridge. This is the default for rootful containers. It is possible to specify these additional options:
  - **alias=name**: Add network-scoped alias for the container.
  - **ip=IPv4**: Specify a static ipv4 address for this container.
  - **ip=IPv6**: Specify a static ipv6 address for this container.
  - **mac=MAC**: Specify a static mac address for this container.
  - **interface_name**: Specify a name for the created network interface inside the container.

    For example to set a static ipv4 address and a static mac address, use `--network bridge:ip=10.88.0.10,mac=44:33:22:11:00:99`.

- \<network name or ID\>[:OPTIONS,...]: Connect to a user-defined network; this is the network name or ID from a network created by **[podman network create](podman-network-create.1.md)**. Using the network name implies the bridge network mode. It is possible to specify the same options described under the bridge mode above. Use the **--network** option multiple times to specify additional networks.
- **none**: Create a network namespace for the container but do not configure network interfaces for it, thus the container has no network connectivity.
- **container:**_id_: Reuse another container's network stack.
- **host**: Do not create a network namespace, the container will use the host's network. Note: The host mode gives the container full access to local system services such as D-bus and is therefore considered insecure.
- **ns:**_path_: Path to a network namespace to join.
- **private**: Create a new namespace for the container. This will use the **bridge** mode for rootful containers and **slirp4netns** for rootless ones.
- **slirp4netns[:OPTIONS,...]**: use **slirp4netns**(1) to create a user network stack. This is the default for rootless containers. It is possible to specify these additional options, they can also be set with `network_cmd_options` in containers.conf:
  - **allow_host_loopback=true|false**: Allow slirp4netns to reach the host loopback IP (default is 10.0.2.2 or the second IP from slirp4netns cidr subnet when changed, see the cidr option below). The default is false.
  - **mtu=MTU**: Specify the MTU to use for this network. (Default is `65520`).
  - **cidr=CIDR**: Specify ip range to use for this network. (Default is `10.0.2.0/24`).
  - **enable_ipv6=true|false**: Enable IPv6. Default is true. (Required for `outbound_addr6`).
  - **outbound_addr=INTERFACE**: Specify the outbound interface slirp should bind to (ipv4 traffic only).
  - **outbound_addr=IPv4**: Specify the outbound ipv4 address slirp should bind to.
  - **outbound_addr6=INTERFACE**: Specify the outbound interface slirp should bind to (ipv6 traffic only).
  - **outbound_addr6=IPv6**: Specify the outbound ipv6 address slirp should bind to.
  - **port_handler=rootlesskit**: Use rootlesskit for port forwarding. Default.
  Note: Rootlesskit changes the source IP address of incoming packets to an IP address in the container network namespace, usually `10.0.2.100`. If the application requires the real source IP address, e.g. web server logs, use the slirp4netns port handler. The rootlesskit port handler is also used for rootless containers when connected to user-defined networks.
  - **port_handler=slirp4netns**: Use the slirp4netns port forwarding, it is slower than rootlesskit but preserves the correct source IP address. This port handler cannot be used for user-defined networks.

- **pasta[:OPTIONS,...]**: use **pasta**(1) to create a user-mode networking
    stack. \
    This is only supported in rootless mode. \
    By default, IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and routes, as well as the pod interface
    name, are copied from the host. If port forwarding isn't configured, ports
    will be forwarded dynamically as services are bound on either side (init
    namespace or container namespace). Port forwarding preserves the original
    source IP address. Options described in pasta(1) can be specified as
    comma-separated arguments. \
    In terms of pasta(1) options, **--config-net** is given by default, in
    order to configure networking when the container is started, and
    **--no-map-gw** is also assumed by default, to avoid direct access from
    container to host using the gateway address. The latter can be overridden
    by passing **--map-gw** in the pasta-specific options (despite not being an
    actual pasta(1) option). \
    Also, **-t none** and **-u none** are passed if, respectively, no TCP or
    UDP port forwarding from host to container is configured, to disable
    automatic port forwarding based on bound ports. Similarly, **-T none** and
    **-U none** are given to disable the same functionality from container to
    host. \
    Some examples:
    - **pasta:--map-gw**: Allow the container to directly reach the host using the
        gateway address.
    - **pasta:--mtu,1500**: Specify a 1500 bytes MTU for the _tap_ interface in
        the container.
    - **pasta:--ipv4-only,-a,10.0.2.0,-n,24,-g,10.0.2.2,--dns-forward,10.0.2.3,-m,1500,--no-ndp,--no-dhcpv6,--no-dhcp**,
        equivalent to default slirp4netns(1) options: disable IPv6, assign
        `10.0.2.0/24` to the `tap0` interface in the container, with gateway
        `10.0.2.3`, enable DNS forwarder reachable at `10.0.2.3`, set MTU to 1500
        bytes, disable NDP, DHCPv6 and DHCP support.
    - **pasta:-I,tap0,--ipv4-only,-a,10.0.2.0,-n,24,-g,10.0.2.2,--dns-forward,10.0.2.3,--no-ndp,--no-dhcpv6,--no-dhcp**,
        equivalent to default slirp4netns(1) options with Podman overrides: same as
        above, but leave the MTU to 65520 bytes
    - **pasta:-t,auto,-u,auto,-T,auto,-U,auto**: enable automatic port forwarding
        based on observed bound ports from both host and container sides
    - **pasta:-T,5201**: enable forwarding of TCP port 5201 from container to
        host, using the loopback interface instead of the tap interface for improved
        performance

    NOTE: For backward compatibility reasons, if there is an existing network named `pasta`, Podman will use it instead of the pasta mode."?

Commit message:

Remove future tense from man pages
Remove all will, would, could, should and use present tense.

Signed-off-by: Daniel J Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>

docs/source/markdown/options/network.md, after:

####> This option file is used in:
####>   podman create, kube play, pod create, run
####> If file is edited, make sure the changes
####> are applicable to all of those.
#### **--network**=*mode*, **--net**

Set the network mode for the <<container|pod>>.

Valid _mode_ values are:

- **bridge[:OPTIONS,...]**: Create a network stack on the default bridge. This is the default for rootful containers. It is possible to specify these additional options:
  - **alias=name**: Add network-scoped alias for the container.
  - **ip=IPv4**: Specify a static ipv4 address for this container.
  - **ip=IPv6**: Specify a static ipv6 address for this container.
  - **mac=MAC**: Specify a static mac address for this container.
  - **interface_name**: Specify a name for the created network interface inside the container.

    For example to set a static ipv4 address and a static mac address, use `--network bridge:ip=10.88.0.10,mac=44:33:22:11:00:99`.

- \<network name or ID\>[:OPTIONS,...]: Connect to a user-defined network; this is the network name or ID from a network created by **[podman network create](podman-network-create.1.md)**. Using the network name implies the bridge network mode. It is possible to specify the same options described under the bridge mode above. Use the **--network** option multiple times to specify additional networks.
- **none**: Create a network namespace for the container but do not configure network interfaces for it, thus the container has no network connectivity.
- **container:**_id_: Reuse another container's network stack.
- **host**: Do not create a network namespace, the container uses the host's network. Note: The host mode gives the container full access to local system services such as D-bus and is therefore considered insecure.
- **ns:**_path_: Path to a network namespace to join.
- **private**: Create a new namespace for the container. This uses the **bridge** mode for rootful containers and **slirp4netns** for rootless ones.
- **slirp4netns[:OPTIONS,...]**: use **slirp4netns**(1) to create a user network stack. This is the default for rootless containers. It is possible to specify these additional options, they can also be set with `network_cmd_options` in containers.conf:
  - **allow_host_loopback=true|false**: Allow slirp4netns to reach the host loopback IP (default is 10.0.2.2 or the second IP from slirp4netns cidr subnet when changed, see the cidr option below). The default is false.
  - **mtu=MTU**: Specify the MTU to use for this network. (Default is `65520`).
  - **cidr=CIDR**: Specify ip range to use for this network. (Default is `10.0.2.0/24`).
  - **enable_ipv6=true|false**: Enable IPv6. Default is true. (Required for `outbound_addr6`).
  - **outbound_addr=INTERFACE**: Specify the outbound interface slirp binds to (ipv4 traffic only).
  - **outbound_addr=IPv4**: Specify the outbound ipv4 address slirp binds to.
  - **outbound_addr6=INTERFACE**: Specify the outbound interface slirp binds to (ipv6 traffic only).
  - **outbound_addr6=IPv6**: Specify the outbound ipv6 address slirp binds to.
  - **port_handler=rootlesskit**: Use rootlesskit for port forwarding. Default.
  Note: Rootlesskit changes the source IP address of incoming packets to an IP address in the container network namespace, usually `10.0.2.100`. If the application requires the real source IP address, e.g. web server logs, use the slirp4netns port handler. The rootlesskit port handler is also used for rootless containers when connected to user-defined networks.
  - **port_handler=slirp4netns**: Use the slirp4netns port forwarding, it is slower than rootlesskit but preserves the correct source IP address. This port handler cannot be used for user-defined networks.

- **pasta[:OPTIONS,...]**: use **pasta**(1) to create a user-mode networking
    stack. \
    This is only supported in rootless mode. \
    By default, IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and routes, as well as the pod interface
    name, are copied from the host. If port forwarding isn't configured, ports
    are forwarded dynamically as services are bound on either side (init
    namespace or container namespace). Port forwarding preserves the original
    source IP address. Options described in pasta(1) can be specified as
    comma-separated arguments. \
    In terms of pasta(1) options, **--config-net** is given by default, in
    order to configure networking when the container is started, and
    **--no-map-gw** is also assumed by default, to avoid direct access from
    container to host using the gateway address. The latter can be overridden
    by passing **--map-gw** in the pasta-specific options (despite not being an
    actual pasta(1) option). \
    Also, **-t none** and **-u none** are passed if, respectively, no TCP or
    UDP port forwarding from host to container is configured, to disable
    automatic port forwarding based on bound ports. Similarly, **-T none** and
    **-U none** are given to disable the same functionality from container to
    host. \
    Some examples:
    - **pasta:--map-gw**: Allow the container to directly reach the host using the
        gateway address.
    - **pasta:--mtu,1500**: Specify a 1500 bytes MTU for the _tap_ interface in
        the container.
    - **pasta:--ipv4-only,-a,10.0.2.0,-n,24,-g,10.0.2.2,--dns-forward,10.0.2.3,-m,1500,--no-ndp,--no-dhcpv6,--no-dhcp**,
        equivalent to default slirp4netns(1) options: disable IPv6, assign
        `10.0.2.0/24` to the `tap0` interface in the container, with gateway
        `10.0.2.3`, enable DNS forwarder reachable at `10.0.2.3`, set MTU to 1500
        bytes, disable NDP, DHCPv6 and DHCP support.
    - **pasta:-I,tap0,--ipv4-only,-a,10.0.2.0,-n,24,-g,10.0.2.2,--dns-forward,10.0.2.3,--no-ndp,--no-dhcpv6,--no-dhcp**,
        equivalent to default slirp4netns(1) options with Podman overrides: same as
        above, but leave the MTU to 65520 bytes
    - **pasta:-t,auto,-u,auto,-T,auto,-U,auto**: enable automatic port forwarding
        based on observed bound ports from both host and container sides
    - **pasta:-T,5201**: enable forwarding of TCP port 5201 from container to
        host, using the loopback interface instead of the tap interface for improved
        performance

    NOTE: For backward compatibility reasons, if there is an existing network named `pasta`, Podman uses it instead of the pasta mode."?
