docs/source/markdown/options/uidmap.container.md, before:

####> This option file is used in:
####>   podman create, run
####> If file is edited, make sure the changes
####> are applicable to all of those.
#### **--uidmap**=*container_uid:from_uid:amount*

Run the container in a new user namespace using the supplied UID mapping. This
option conflicts with the **--userns** and **--subuidname** options. This
option provides a way to map host UIDs to container UIDs. It can be passed
several times to map different ranges.

The *from_uid* value is based upon the user running the command, either rootful or rootless users.
* rootful user:  *container_uid*:*host_uid*:*amount*
* rootless user: *container_uid*:*intermediate_uid*:*amount*

When **podman <<subcommand>>** is called by a privileged user, the option **--uidmap**
works as a direct mapping between host UIDs and container UIDs.

host UID -> container UID

The _amount_ specifies the number of consecutive UIDs that is mapped.
If for example _amount_ is **4** the mapping looks like:

|   host UID     |    container UID    |
| ----------     | ----------------    |
| *from_uid*     | *container_uid*     |
| *from_uid* + 1 | *container_uid* + 1 |
| *from_uid* + 2 | *container_uid* + 2 |
| *from_uid* + 3 | *container_uid* + 3 |

When **podman <<subcommand>>** is called by an unprivileged user (i.e. running rootless),
the value *from_uid* is interpreted as an "intermediate UID". In the rootless
case, host UIDs are not mapped directly to container UIDs. Instead the mapping
happens over two mapping steps:

host UID -> intermediate UID -> container UID

The **--uidmap** option only influences the second mapping step.

The first mapping step is derived by Podman from the contents of the file
_/etc/subuid_ and the UID of the user calling Podman.

First mapping step:

| host UID            | intermediate UID |
| --------            | ---------------- |
| UID for Podman user |                0 |
| 1st subordinate UID |                1 |
| 2nd subordinate UID |                2 |
| 3rd subordinate UID |                3 |
| nth subordinate UID |                n |

To be able to use intermediate UIDs greater than zero, the user needs to have
subordinate UIDs configured in _/etc/subuid_. See **subuid**(5).

The second mapping step is configured with **--uidmap**.

If for example _amount_ is **5** the second mapping step looks like:

|   intermediate UID   |    container UID    |
| ------------------   | ----------------    |
| *from_uid*           | *container_uid*     |
| *from_uid* + 1       | *container_uid* + 1 |
| *from_uid* + 2       | *container_uid* + 2 |
| *from_uid* + 3       | *container_uid* + 3 |
| *from_uid* + 4       | *container_uid* + 4 |

When running as rootless, Podman uses all the ranges configured in the _/etc/subuid_ file.

The current user ID is mapped to UID=0 in the rootless user namespace.
Every additional range is added sequentially afterward:

|   host                | rootless user namespace | length              |
| ------                | ----------------------- | ------              |
| $UID                  | 0                       | 1                   |
| 1                     | $FIRST_RANGE_ID         | $FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH |
| 1+$FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH | $SECOND_RANGE_ID        | $SECOND_RANGE_LENGTH|

Even if a user does not have any subordinate UIDs in  _/etc/subuid_,
**--uidmap** can be used to map the normal UID of the user to a
container UID by running `podman <<subcommand>> --uidmap $container_uid:0:1 --user $container_uid ...`.

Note: the **--uidmap** flag cannot be called in conjunction with the **--pod** flag as a uidmap cannot be set on the container level when in a pod.

Commit message:

[DOC] Clarify default behaviour on uidmap
Specify that by default if only one of uidmap or gidmap is given, the other one is copied

Co-authored-by: Tom Sweeney <tsweeney@redhat.com>
Signed-off-by: Sergio Oller <sergioller@gmail.com>

docs/source/markdown/options/uidmap.container.md, after:

####> This option file is used in:
####>   podman create, run
####> If file is edited, make sure the changes
####> are applicable to all of those.
#### **--uidmap**=*container_uid:from_uid:amount*

Run the container in a new user namespace using the supplied UID mapping. This
option conflicts with the **--userns** and **--subuidname** options. This
option provides a way to map host UIDs to container UIDs. It can be passed
several times to map different ranges.

The *from_uid* value is based upon the user running the command, either rootful or rootless users.
* rootful user:  *container_uid*:*host_uid*:*amount*
* rootless user: *container_uid*:*intermediate_uid*:*amount*

When **podman <<subcommand>>** is called by a privileged user, the option **--uidmap**
works as a direct mapping between host UIDs and container UIDs.

host UID -> container UID

The _amount_ specifies the number of consecutive UIDs that is mapped.
If for example _amount_ is **4** the mapping looks like:

|   host UID     |    container UID    |
| ----------     | ----------------    |
| *from_uid*     | *container_uid*     |
| *from_uid* + 1 | *container_uid* + 1 |
| *from_uid* + 2 | *container_uid* + 2 |
| *from_uid* + 3 | *container_uid* + 3 |

When **podman <<subcommand>>** is called by an unprivileged user (i.e. running rootless),
the value *from_uid* is interpreted as an "intermediate UID". In the rootless
case, host UIDs are not mapped directly to container UIDs. Instead the mapping
happens over two mapping steps:

host UID -> intermediate UID -> container UID

The **--uidmap** option only influences the second mapping step.

The first mapping step is derived by Podman from the contents of the file
_/etc/subuid_ and the UID of the user calling Podman.

First mapping step:

| host UID            | intermediate UID |
| --------            | ---------------- |
| UID for Podman user |                0 |
| 1st subordinate UID |                1 |
| 2nd subordinate UID |                2 |
| 3rd subordinate UID |                3 |
| nth subordinate UID |                n |

To be able to use intermediate UIDs greater than zero, the user needs to have
subordinate UIDs configured in _/etc/subuid_. See **subuid**(5).

The second mapping step is configured with **--uidmap**.

If for example _amount_ is **5** the second mapping step looks like:

|   intermediate UID   |    container UID    |
| ------------------   | ----------------    |
| *from_uid*           | *container_uid*     |
| *from_uid* + 1       | *container_uid* + 1 |
| *from_uid* + 2       | *container_uid* + 2 |
| *from_uid* + 3       | *container_uid* + 3 |
| *from_uid* + 4       | *container_uid* + 4 |

When running as rootless, Podman uses all the ranges configured in the _/etc/subuid_ file.

The current user ID is mapped to UID=0 in the rootless user namespace.
Every additional range is added sequentially afterward:

|   host                | rootless user namespace | length              |
| ------                | ----------------------- | ------              |
| $UID                  | 0                       | 1                   |
| 1                     | $FIRST_RANGE_ID         | $FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH |
| 1+$FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH | $SECOND_RANGE_ID        | $SECOND_RANGE_LENGTH|

By default, providing either **--uidmap** or **--gidmap** replaces the
whole mapping. If only one of those two options is given, the other one is
copied by default.  If only one value of the two needs to be changed,
both values should be provided.

Even if a user does not have any subordinate UIDs in  _/etc/subuid_,
**--uidmap** can be used to map the normal UID of the user to a
container UID by running `podman <<subcommand>> --uidmap $container_uid:0:1 --user $container_uid ...`.

Note: the **--uidmap** flag cannot be called in conjunction with the **--pod** flag as a uidmap cannot be set on the container level when in a pod.
