docs/podman-import.1.md, before:

% podman(1) podman-import - Simple tool to import a tarball as an image
% Urvashi Mohnani
# podman-import "1" "November 2017" "podman"

## NAME
podman\-import - Import a tarball and save it as a filesystem image

## SYNOPSIS
**podman import**
**TARBALL**
[**--change**|**-c**]
[**--message**|**-m**]
[**--help**|**-h**]
[**-verbose**]

## DESCRIPTION
**podman import** imports a tarball (.tar, .tar.gz, .tgz, .bzip, .tar.xz, .txz)
and saves it as a filesystem image. Remote tarballs can be specified using a URL.
Various image instructions can be configured with the **--change** flag and
a commit message can be set using the **--message** flag.

**podman [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

**podman import [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

**podman import [OPTIONS] CONTAINER**

## OPTIONS

**--change, -c**
Apply the following possible instructions to the created image:
**CMD** | **ENTRYPOINT** | **ENV** | **EXPOSE** | **LABEL** | **STOPSIGNAL** | **USER** | **VOLUME** | **WORKDIR**
Can be set multiple times

**--message, -m**
Set commit message for imported image

**--quiet, -q**
Shows progress on the import

## EXAMPLES

```
# podman import --change CMD=/bin/bash --change ENTRYPOINT=/bin/sh --change LABEL=blue=image ctr.tar image-imported
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob sha256:b41deda5a2feb1f03a5c1bb38c598cbc12c9ccd675f438edc6acd815f7585b86
 25.80 MB / 25.80 MB [======================================================] 0s
Copying config sha256:c16a6d30f3782288ec4e7521c754acc29d37155629cb39149756f486dae2d4cd
 448 B / 448 B [============================================================] 0s
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
db65d991f3bbf7f31ed1064db9a6ced7652e3f8166c4736aa9133dadd3c7acb3
```

```
# cat ctr.tar | podman -q import --message "importing the ctr.tar tarball" - image-imported
db65d991f3bbf7f31ed1064db9a6ced7652e3f8166c4736aa9133dadd3c7acb3
```

```
# cat ctr.tar | podman import -
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob sha256:b41deda5a2feb1f03a5c1bb38c598cbc12c9ccd675f438edc6acd815f7585b86
 25.80 MB / 25.80 MB [======================================================] 0s
Copying config sha256:d61387b4d5edf65edee5353e2340783703074ffeaaac529cde97a8357eea7645
 378 B / 378 B [============================================================] 0s
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
db65d991f3bbf7f31ed1064db9a6ced7652e3f8166c4736aa9133dadd3c7acb3
```

```
podman import http://example.com/ctr.tar url-image
Downloading from "http://example.com/ctr.tar"
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob sha256:b41deda5a2feb1f03a5c1bb38c598cbc12c9ccd675f438edc6acd815f7585b86
 25.80 MB / 25.80 MB [======================================================] 0s
Copying config sha256:5813fe8a3b18696089fd09957a12e88bda43dc1745b5240879ffffe93240d29a
 419 B / 419 B [============================================================] 0s
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
db65d991f3bbf7f31ed1064db9a6ced7652e3f8166c4736aa9133dadd3c7acb3
```

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-export(1), crio(8)

## HISTORY
November 2017, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Make ':' a restricted character for file names
file names for podman load, save, export, and import cannot
contain ":" in them. It is a reserved character for parsing
filenames.

Signed-off-by: umohnani8 <umohnani@redhat.com>

Closes: #694
Approved by: rhatdan

docs/podman-import.1.md, after:

% podman(1) podman-import - Simple tool to import a tarball as an image
% Urvashi Mohnani
# podman-import "1" "November 2017" "podman"

## NAME
podman\-import - Import a tarball and save it as a filesystem image

## SYNOPSIS
**podman import**
**TARBALL**
[**--change**|**-c**]
[**--message**|**-m**]
[**--help**|**-h**]
[**-verbose**]

## DESCRIPTION
**podman import** imports a tarball (.tar, .tar.gz, .tgz, .bzip, .tar.xz, .txz)
and saves it as a filesystem image. Remote tarballs can be specified using a URL.
Various image instructions can be configured with the **--change** flag and
a commit message can be set using the **--message** flag.
Note: `:` is a restricted character and cannot be part of the file name.

**podman [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

**podman import [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

**podman import [OPTIONS] CONTAINER**

## OPTIONS

**--change, -c**
Apply the following possible instructions to the created image:
**CMD** | **ENTRYPOINT** | **ENV** | **EXPOSE** | **LABEL** | **STOPSIGNAL** | **USER** | **VOLUME** | **WORKDIR**
Can be set multiple times

**--message, -m**
Set commit message for imported image

**--quiet, -q**
Shows progress on the import

## EXAMPLES

```
# podman import --change CMD=/bin/bash --change ENTRYPOINT=/bin/sh --change LABEL=blue=image ctr.tar image-imported
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob sha256:b41deda5a2feb1f03a5c1bb38c598cbc12c9ccd675f438edc6acd815f7585b86
 25.80 MB / 25.80 MB [======================================================] 0s
Copying config sha256:c16a6d30f3782288ec4e7521c754acc29d37155629cb39149756f486dae2d4cd
 448 B / 448 B [============================================================] 0s
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
db65d991f3bbf7f31ed1064db9a6ced7652e3f8166c4736aa9133dadd3c7acb3
```

```
# cat ctr.tar | podman -q import --message "importing the ctr.tar tarball" - image-imported
db65d991f3bbf7f31ed1064db9a6ced7652e3f8166c4736aa9133dadd3c7acb3
```

```
# cat ctr.tar | podman import -
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob sha256:b41deda5a2feb1f03a5c1bb38c598cbc12c9ccd675f438edc6acd815f7585b86
 25.80 MB / 25.80 MB [======================================================] 0s
Copying config sha256:d61387b4d5edf65edee5353e2340783703074ffeaaac529cde97a8357eea7645
 378 B / 378 B [============================================================] 0s
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
db65d991f3bbf7f31ed1064db9a6ced7652e3f8166c4736aa9133dadd3c7acb3
```

```
podman import http://example.com/ctr.tar url-image
Downloading from "http://example.com/ctr.tar"
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob sha256:b41deda5a2feb1f03a5c1bb38c598cbc12c9ccd675f438edc6acd815f7585b86
 25.80 MB / 25.80 MB [======================================================] 0s
Copying config sha256:5813fe8a3b18696089fd09957a12e88bda43dc1745b5240879ffffe93240d29a
 419 B / 419 B [============================================================] 0s
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
db65d991f3bbf7f31ed1064db9a6ced7652e3f8166c4736aa9133dadd3c7acb3
```

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-export(1), crio(8)

## HISTORY
November 2017, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>
