docs/podman-ps.1.md, before:

% podman-ps(1)

## NAME
podman\-ps - Prints out information about containers

## SYNOPSIS
**podman ps** [*options*]

## DESCRIPTION
**podman ps** lists the running containers on the system. Use the **--all** flag to view
all the containers information.  By default it lists:

 * container id
 * the name of the image the container is using
 * the COMMAND the container is executing
 * the time the container was created
 * the status of the container
 * port mappings the container is using
 * alternative names for the container

## OPTIONS

**--all, -a**

Show all the containers, default is only running containers

**--pod, -p**

Display the pods the containers are associated with

**--no-trunc**

Display the extended information

**--quiet, -q**

Print the numeric IDs of the containers only

**--format**

Pretty-print containers to JSON or using a Go template

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

| **Placeholder** | **Description**                                  |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| .ID             | Container ID                                     |
| .Image          | Image ID/Name                                    |
| .Command        | Quoted command used                              |
| .CreatedAt      | Creation time for container                      |
| .RunningFor     | Time elapsed since container was started         |
| .Status         | Status of container                              |
| .Pod            | Pod the container is associated with             |
| .Ports          | Exposed ports                                    |
| .Size           | Size of container                                |
| .Names          | Name of container                                |
| .Labels         | All the labels assigned to the container         |
| .Mounts         | Volumes mounted in the container                 |

**--sort**

Sort by command, created, id, image, names, runningfor, size, or status",
Note: Choosing size will sort by size of rootFs, not alphabetically like the rest of the options
Default: created

**--size, -s**

Display the total file size

**--last, -n**

Print the n last created containers (all states)

**--latest, -l**

Show the latest container created (all states)

**--namespace, --ns**

Display namespace information

**--filter, -f**

Filter what containers are shown in the output.
Multiple filters can be given with multiple uses of the --filter flag.
If multiple filters are given, only containers which match all of the given filters will be shown.

Valid filters are listed below:

| **Filter**      | **Description**                                                     |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id              | [ID] Container's ID                                                 |
| name            | [Name] Container's name                                             |
| label           | [Key] or [Key=Value] Label assigned to a container                  |
| exited          | [Int] Container's exit code                                         |
| status          | [Status] Container's status, e.g *running*, *stopped*               |
| ancestor        | [ImageName] Image or descendant used to create container            |
| before          | [ID] or [Name] Containers created before this container             |
| since           | [ID] or [Name] Containers created since this container              |
| volume          | [VolumeName] or [MountpointDestination] Volume mounted in container |

**--help**, **-h**

Print usage statement

## EXAMPLES

```
$ podman ps -a
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE         COMMAND         CREATED       STATUS                    PORTS     NAMES
02f65160e14ca  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  19 hours ago  Exited (-1) 19 hours ago  6379/tcp  k8s_podsandbox1-redis_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_0
69ed779d8ef9f  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  25 hours ago  Created                   6379/tcp  k8s_container1_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1
```

```
$ podman ps -a -s
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE         COMMAND         CREATED       STATUS                    PORTS     NAMES                                                                  SIZE
02f65160e14ca  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  20 hours ago  Exited (-1) 20 hours ago  6379/tcp  k8s_podsandbox1-redis_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_0  27.49 MB
69ed779d8ef9f  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  25 hours ago  Created                   6379/tcp  k8s_container1_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1         27.49 MB
```

```
$ podman ps -a --format "{{.ID}}  {{.Image}}  {{.Labels}}  {{.Mounts}}"
02f65160e14ca  redis:alpine  tier=backend  proc,tmpfs,devpts,shm,mqueue,sysfs,cgroup,/var/run/,/var/run/
69ed779d8ef9f  redis:alpine  batch=no,type=small  proc,tmpfs,devpts,shm,mqueue,sysfs,cgroup,/var/run/,/var/run/
```

```
$ podman ps --ns -a
CONTAINER ID    NAMES                                                                   PID     CGROUP       IPC          MNT          NET          PIDNS        USER         UTS
3557d882a82e3   k8s_container2_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1          29910   4026531835   4026532585   4026532593   4026532508   4026532595   4026531837   4026532594
09564cdae0bec   k8s_container1_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1          29851   4026531835   4026532585   4026532590   4026532508   4026532592   4026531837   4026532591
a31ebbee9cee7   k8s_podsandbox1-redis_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_0   29717   4026531835   4026532585   4026532587   4026532508   4026532589   4026531837   4026532588
```

```
$ podman ps -a --size --sort names
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE         COMMAND         CREATED       STATUS                    PORTS     NAMES
69ed779d8ef9f  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  25 hours ago  Created                   6379/tcp  k8s_container1_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1
02f65160e14ca  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  19 hours ago  Exited (-1) 19 hours ago  6379/tcp  k8s_podsandbox1-redis_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_0
```
## ps
Print a list of containers

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), crio(8)

## HISTORY
August 2017, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Add --sync flag to podman ps
The previous commit added support for --sync to podman rm to
ensure state inconsistencies would not prevent containers from
being removed.

Add the flag to podman ps as well, so that all containers can be
forcibly synced and all state inconsistencies resolved.

Signed-off-by: Matthew Heon <mheon@redhat.com>

docs/podman-ps.1.md, after:

% podman-ps(1)

## NAME
podman\-ps - Prints out information about containers

## SYNOPSIS
**podman ps** [*options*]

## DESCRIPTION
**podman ps** lists the running containers on the system. Use the **--all** flag to view
all the containers information.  By default it lists:

 * container id
 * the name of the image the container is using
 * the COMMAND the container is executing
 * the time the container was created
 * the status of the container
 * port mappings the container is using
 * alternative names for the container

## OPTIONS

**--all, -a**

Show all the containers, default is only running containers

**--pod, -p**

Display the pods the containers are associated with

**--no-trunc**

Display the extended information

**--quiet, -q**

Print the numeric IDs of the containers only

**--format**

Pretty-print containers to JSON or using a Go template

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

| **Placeholder** | **Description**                                  |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| .ID             | Container ID                                     |
| .Image          | Image ID/Name                                    |
| .Command        | Quoted command used                              |
| .CreatedAt      | Creation time for container                      |
| .RunningFor     | Time elapsed since container was started         |
| .Status         | Status of container                              |
| .Pod            | Pod the container is associated with             |
| .Ports          | Exposed ports                                    |
| .Size           | Size of container                                |
| .Names          | Name of container                                |
| .Labels         | All the labels assigned to the container         |
| .Mounts         | Volumes mounted in the container                 |

**--sort**

Sort by command, created, id, image, names, runningfor, size, or status",
Note: Choosing size will sort by size of rootFs, not alphabetically like the rest of the options
Default: created

**--size, -s**

Display the total file size

**--last, -n**

Print the n last created containers (all states)

**--latest, -l**

Show the latest container created (all states)

**--namespace, --ns**

Display namespace information

**--filter, -f**

Filter what containers are shown in the output.
Multiple filters can be given with multiple uses of the --filter flag.
If multiple filters are given, only containers which match all of the given filters will be shown.

Valid filters are listed below:

| **Filter**      | **Description**                                                     |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id              | [ID] Container's ID                                                 |
| name            | [Name] Container's name                                             |
| label           | [Key] or [Key=Value] Label assigned to a container                  |
| exited          | [Int] Container's exit code                                         |
| status          | [Status] Container's status, e.g *running*, *stopped*               |
| ancestor        | [ImageName] Image or descendant used to create container            |
| before          | [ID] or [Name] Containers created before this container             |
| since           | [ID] or [Name] Containers created since this container              |
| volume          | [VolumeName] or [MountpointDestination] Volume mounted in container |

**--help**, **-h**

Print usage statement

**--sync**

Force a sync of container state with the OCI runtime.
In some cases, a container's state in the runtime can become out of sync with Podman's state.
This will update Podman's state based on what the OCI runtime reports.
Forcibly syncing is much slower, but can resolve inconsistent state issues.

## EXAMPLES

```
$ podman ps -a
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE         COMMAND         CREATED       STATUS                    PORTS     NAMES
02f65160e14ca  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  19 hours ago  Exited (-1) 19 hours ago  6379/tcp  k8s_podsandbox1-redis_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_0
69ed779d8ef9f  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  25 hours ago  Created                   6379/tcp  k8s_container1_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1
```

```
$ podman ps -a -s
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE         COMMAND         CREATED       STATUS                    PORTS     NAMES                                                                  SIZE
02f65160e14ca  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  20 hours ago  Exited (-1) 20 hours ago  6379/tcp  k8s_podsandbox1-redis_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_0  27.49 MB
69ed779d8ef9f  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  25 hours ago  Created                   6379/tcp  k8s_container1_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1         27.49 MB
```

```
$ podman ps -a --format "{{.ID}}  {{.Image}}  {{.Labels}}  {{.Mounts}}"
02f65160e14ca  redis:alpine  tier=backend  proc,tmpfs,devpts,shm,mqueue,sysfs,cgroup,/var/run/,/var/run/
69ed779d8ef9f  redis:alpine  batch=no,type=small  proc,tmpfs,devpts,shm,mqueue,sysfs,cgroup,/var/run/,/var/run/
```

```
$ podman ps --ns -a
CONTAINER ID    NAMES                                                                   PID     CGROUP       IPC          MNT          NET          PIDNS        USER         UTS
3557d882a82e3   k8s_container2_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1          29910   4026531835   4026532585   4026532593   4026532508   4026532595   4026531837   4026532594
09564cdae0bec   k8s_container1_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1          29851   4026531835   4026532585   4026532590   4026532508   4026532592   4026531837   4026532591
a31ebbee9cee7   k8s_podsandbox1-redis_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_0   29717   4026531835   4026532585   4026532587   4026532508   4026532589   4026531837   4026532588
```

```
$ podman ps -a --size --sort names
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE         COMMAND         CREATED       STATUS                    PORTS     NAMES
69ed779d8ef9f  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  25 hours ago  Created                   6379/tcp  k8s_container1_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_1
02f65160e14ca  redis:alpine  "redis-server"  19 hours ago  Exited (-1) 19 hours ago  6379/tcp  k8s_podsandbox1-redis_podsandbox1_redhat.test.crio_redhat-test-crio_0
```
## ps
Print a list of containers

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), crio(8)

## HISTORY
August 2017, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>
