docs/podman-port.1.md, before:

% podman-port "1"

## NAME
podman\-port - List port mappings for a container

## SYNOPSIS
**podman port [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [PRIVATE_PORT[/PROTO]]**

## DESCRIPTION
List port mappings for the CONTAINER, or lookup the public-facing port that is NAT-ed to the PRIVATE_PORT

## OPTIONS

**--all, a**

List all known port mappings for running containers.  When using this option, you cannot pass any container names
or private ports/protocols as filters.

**--latest, -l**

Instead of providing the container name or ID, use the last created container. If you use methods other than Podman
to run containers such as CRI-O, the last started container could be from either of those methods.

## EXAMPLE

List all port mappings
```
#podman port -a
b4d2f05432e482e017b1a4b2eae15fa7b4f6fb7e9f65c1bde46294fdef285906
80/udp -> 0.0.0.0:44327
80/tcp -> 0.0.0.0:44327
#
```

List port mappings for a specific container
```
#podman port b4d2f054
80/udp -> 0.0.0.0:44327
80/tcp -> 0.0.0.0:44327
#
```
List the port mappings for the latest container and port 80
```
#podman port b4d2f054 80
 0.0.0.0:44327
#
```

List the port mappings for a specific container for port 80 and the tcp protocol.
```
#podman port b4d2f054 80/tcp
0.0.0.0:44327
#
```
## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-inspect(1)

## HISTORY
January 2018, Originally compiled by Brent Baude <bbaude@redhat.com>

Commit message:

docs: Follow man-pages(7) suggestions for SYNOPSIS
man-pages(7) has [1]:

> For commands, this shows the syntax of the command and its arguments
> (including options); boldface is used for as-is text and italics are
> used to indicate replaceable arguments. Brackets ([]) surround
> optional arguments, vertical bars (|) separate choices, and ellipses
> (...) can be repeated.

I've adjusted our SYNOPSIS entries to match that formatting, and
generally tried to make them more consistent with the precedent set by
the man-pages project.  Outside of the SYNOPSIS entry, I prefer using
backticks for literals, although in some places I've left the **
bolding to keep things visually similar to a nearby SYNOPSIS entry.

[1]: http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/man-pages.7.html

Signed-off-by: W. Trevor King <wking@tremily.us>

Closes: #1027
Approved by: rhatdan

docs/podman-port.1.md, after:

% podman-port "1"

## NAME
podman\-port - List port mappings for a container

## SYNOPSIS
**podman port** [*options*] *container* [*private-port*[/*proto*]]

## DESCRIPTION
List port mappings for the *container* or lookup the public-facing port that is NAT-ed to the *private-port*.

## OPTIONS

**--all, a**

List all known port mappings for running containers.  When using this option, you cannot pass any container names
or private ports/protocols as filters.

**--latest, -l**

Instead of providing the container name or ID, use the last created container. If you use methods other than Podman
to run containers such as CRI-O, the last started container could be from either of those methods.

## EXAMPLE

List all port mappings
```
#podman port -a
b4d2f05432e482e017b1a4b2eae15fa7b4f6fb7e9f65c1bde46294fdef285906
80/udp -> 0.0.0.0:44327
80/tcp -> 0.0.0.0:44327
#
```

List port mappings for a specific container
```
#podman port b4d2f054
80/udp -> 0.0.0.0:44327
80/tcp -> 0.0.0.0:44327
#
```
List the port mappings for the latest container and port 80
```
#podman port b4d2f054 80
 0.0.0.0:44327
#
```

List the port mappings for a specific container for port 80 and the tcp protocol.
```
#podman port b4d2f054 80/tcp
0.0.0.0:44327
#
```
## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-inspect(1)

## HISTORY
January 2018, Originally compiled by Brent Baude <bbaude@redhat.com>
