docs/podman-start.1.md, before:

% podman(1) podman-start - Stop one or more containers
% Brent Baude
# podman-start "1" "November 2017" "podman"

## NAME
podman start - Start one or more containers

## SYNOPSIS
**podman start [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [...]**

## DESCRIPTION
Start one or more containers.  You may use container IDs or names as input.  The *attach* and *interactive*
options cannot be used to override the *--tty** and *--interactive* options from when the container
was created.

## OPTIONS

**--attach, -a**

Attach container's STDOUT and STDERR.  The default is false. This option cannot be used when
starting multiple containers.

**--detach-keys**

Override the key sequence for detaching a container. Format is a single character [a-Z] or
ctrl-<value> where <value> is one of: a-z, @, ^, [, , or _.

**--interactive, -i**

Attach container's STDIN. The default is false.

**--latest, -l**
Instead of providing the container name or ID, use the last created container. If you use methods other than Podman
to run containers such as CRI-O, the last started container could be from either of those methods.

## EXAMPLE

podman start mywebserver

podman start 860a4b23 5421ab4

podman start -i -a 860a4b23

podman start -i -l

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-create(1)

## HISTORY
November 2018, Originally compiled by Brent Baude <bbaude@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Add signal proxying to podman run, start, and attach
Also removes sig-proxy from 'podman create', where is does not
make sense.

Signed-off-by: Matthew Heon <matthew.heon@gmail.com>

docs/podman-start.1.md, after:

% podman(1) podman-start - Stop one or more containers
% Brent Baude
# podman-start "1" "November 2017" "podman"

## NAME
podman start - Start one or more containers

## SYNOPSIS
**podman start [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [...]**

## DESCRIPTION
Start one or more containers.  You may use container IDs or names as input.  The *attach* and *interactive*
options cannot be used to override the *--tty** and *--interactive* options from when the container
was created.

## OPTIONS

**--attach, -a**

Attach container's STDOUT and STDERR.  The default is false. This option cannot be used when
starting multiple containers.

**--detach-keys**

Override the key sequence for detaching a container. Format is a single character [a-Z] or
ctrl-<value> where <value> is one of: a-z, @, ^, [, , or _.

**--interactive, -i**

Attach container's STDIN. The default is false.

**--latest, -l**
Instead of providing the container name or ID, use the last created container. If you use methods other than Podman
to run containers such as CRI-O, the last started container could be from either of those methods.

**--sig-proxy**=*true*|*false*
Proxy received signals to the process (non-TTY mode only). SIGCHLD, SIGSTOP, and SIGKILL are not proxied. The default is false.

## EXAMPLE

podman start mywebserver

podman start 860a4b23 5421ab4

podman start -i -a 860a4b23

podman start -i -l

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-create(1)

## HISTORY
November 2018, Originally compiled by Brent Baude <bbaude@redhat.com>
