docs/podman-commit.1.md, before:

% podman(1) podman-commit - Tool to create new image based on the changed container
% Urvashi Mohnani
# podman-commit "1" "December 2017" "podman"

## NAME
podman\-commit - Create new image based on the changed container

## SYNOPSIS
**podman commit** [*options* [...]] CONTAINER IMAGE

## DESCRIPTION
**podman commit** creates an image based on a changed container. The author of the
image can be set using the **--author** flag. Various image instructions can be
configured with the **--change** flag and a commit message can be set using the
**--message** flag. The container and its processes are paused while the image is
committed. This minimizes the likelihood of data corruption when creating the new
image. If this is not desired, the **--pause** flag can be set to false. When the commit
is complete, podman will print out the ID of the new image.

## OPTIONS

**--author, -a**
Set the author for the committed image

**--change, -c**
Apply the following possible instructions to the created image:
**CMD** | **ENTRYPOINT** | **ENV** | **EXPOSE** | **LABEL** | **STOPSIGNAL** | **USER** | **VOLUME** | **WORKDIR**
Can be set multiple times

**--iidfile** *ImageIDfile*

Write the image ID to the file.

**--message, -m**
Set commit message for committed image

**--pause, -p**
Pause the container when creating an image

**--quiet, -q**
Suppress output

## EXAMPLES

```
# podman commit --change CMD=/bin/bash --change ENTRYPOINT=/bin/sh --change LABEL=blue=image reverent_golick image-commited
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob sha256:b41deda5a2feb1f03a5c1bb38c598cbc12c9ccd675f438edc6acd815f7585b86
 25.80 MB / 25.80 MB [======================================================] 0s
Copying config sha256:c16a6d30f3782288ec4e7521c754acc29d37155629cb39149756f486dae2d4cd
 448 B / 448 B [============================================================] 0s
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
e3ce4d93051ceea088d1c242624d659be32cf1667ef62f1d16d6b60193e2c7a8
```

```
# podman commit -q --message "committing container to image" reverent_golick image-commited
e3ce4d93051ceea088d1c242624d659be32cf1667ef62f1d16d6b60193e2c7a8
```

```
# podman commit -q --author "firstName lastName" reverent_golick image-commited
e3ce4d93051ceea088d1c242624d659be32cf1667ef62f1d16d6b60193e2c7a8
```

```
# podman commit -q --pause=false reverent_golick image-commited
e3ce4d93051ceea088d1c242624d659be32cf1667ef62f1d16d6b60193e2c7a8
```

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-run(1), podman-create(1)

## HISTORY
December 2017, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Make podman commit to localhost rather then docker.io
Signed-off-by: Daniel J Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>

Closes: #715
Approved by: mheon

docs/podman-commit.1.md, after:

% podman(1) podman-commit - Tool to create new image based on the changed container
% Urvashi Mohnani
# podman-commit "1" "December 2017" "podman"

## NAME
podman\-commit - Create new image based on the changed container

## SYNOPSIS
**podman commit** [*options* [...]] CONTAINER IMAGE

## DESCRIPTION
**podman commit** creates an image based on a changed container. The author of the
image can be set using the **--author** flag. Various image instructions can be
configured with the **--change** flag and a commit message can be set using the
**--message** flag. The container and its processes are paused while the image is
committed. This minimizes the likelihood of data corruption when creating the new
image. If this is not desired, the **--pause** flag can be set to false. When the commit
is complete, podman will print out the ID of the new image.

If *imageName* does not begin with a registry name component, *localhost* will be added to the name.

## OPTIONS

**--author, -a**
Set the author for the committed image

**--change, -c**
Apply the following possible instructions to the created image:
**CMD** | **ENTRYPOINT** | **ENV** | **EXPOSE** | **LABEL** | **STOPSIGNAL** | **USER** | **VOLUME** | **WORKDIR**
Can be set multiple times

**--iidfile** *ImageIDfile*

Write the image ID to the file.

**--message, -m**
Set commit message for committed image

**--pause, -p**
Pause the container when creating an image

**--quiet, -q**
Suppress output

## EXAMPLES

```
# podman commit --change CMD=/bin/bash --change ENTRYPOINT=/bin/sh --change LABEL=blue=image reverent_golick image-commited
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob sha256:b41deda5a2feb1f03a5c1bb38c598cbc12c9ccd675f438edc6acd815f7585b86
 25.80 MB / 25.80 MB [======================================================] 0s
Copying config sha256:c16a6d30f3782288ec4e7521c754acc29d37155629cb39149756f486dae2d4cd
 448 B / 448 B [============================================================] 0s
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
e3ce4d93051ceea088d1c242624d659be32cf1667ef62f1d16d6b60193e2c7a8
```

```
# podman commit -q --message "committing container to image" reverent_golick image-commited
e3ce4d93051ceea088d1c242624d659be32cf1667ef62f1d16d6b60193e2c7a8
```

```
# podman commit -q --author "firstName lastName" reverent_golick image-commited
e3ce4d93051ceea088d1c242624d659be32cf1667ef62f1d16d6b60193e2c7a8
```

```
# podman commit -q --pause=false reverent_golick image-commited
e3ce4d93051ceea088d1c242624d659be32cf1667ef62f1d16d6b60193e2c7a8
```

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-run(1), podman-create(1)

## HISTORY
December 2017, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>
