docs/podman-login.1.md, before:

% podman(1) podman-login - Simple tool to login to a registry server
% Urvashi Mohnani
# podman-login "1" "August 2017" "podman"

## NAME
podman login - Login to a container registry

## SYNOPSIS
**podman login**
[**--help**|**-h**]
[**--authfile**]
[**--user**|**-u**]
[**--password**|**-p**]
**REGISTRY**

## DESCRIPTION
**podman login** logs into a specified registry server with the correct username
and password. **podman login** reads in the username and password from STDIN.
The username and password can also be set using the **username** and **password** flags.
The path of the authentication file can be specified by the user by setting the **authfile**
flag. The default path used is **${XDG\_RUNTIME_DIR}/containers/auth.json**.

**podman [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

**podman login [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

**podman login [OPTIONS] REGISTRY [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

## OPTIONS

**--password, -p**
Password for registry

**--username, -u**
Username for registry

**--authfile**
Path of the authentication file. Default is ${XDG_\RUNTIME\_DIR}/containers/auth.json

**--cert-dir**
Pathname of a directory containing TLS certificates and keys used to connect to the registry.
Default certificates directory is _/etc/containers/certs.d_.

**--tls-verify**
Require HTTPS and verify certificates when contacting registries (default: true)

## EXAMPLES

```
# podman login docker.io
Username: umohnani
Password:
Login Succeeded!
```

```
# podman login -u testuser -p testpassword localhost:5000
Login Succeeded!
```

```
# podman login --authfile authdir/myauths.json docker.io
Username: umohnani
Password:
Login Succeeded!
```

```
$ podman login --tls-verify=false -u test -p test localhost:5000
Login Succeeded!
```

```
$ podman login --cert-dir /etc/containers/certs.d/ -u foo -p bar localhost:5000
Login Succeeded!
```

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-logout(1), crio(8)

## HISTORY
August 2017, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Change default directory of auth for podman login
The credentials are now stored in /run/containers/UID
if $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR is not set.

Signed-off-by: umohnani8 <umohnani@redhat.com>

docs/podman-login.1.md, after:

% podman(1) podman-login - Simple tool to login to a registry server
% Urvashi Mohnani
# podman-login "1" "August 2017" "podman"

## NAME
podman login - Login to a container registry

## SYNOPSIS
**podman login**
[**--help**|**-h**]
[**--authfile**]
[**--user**|**-u**]
[**--password**|**-p**]
**REGISTRY**

## DESCRIPTION
**podman login** logs into a specified registry server with the correct username
and password. **podman login** reads in the username and password from STDIN.
The username and password can also be set using the **username** and **password** flags.
The path of the authentication file can be specified by the user by setting the **authfile**
flag. The default path used is **${XDG\_RUNTIME_DIR}/containers/auth.json**.

**podman [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

**podman login [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

**podman login [OPTIONS] REGISTRY [GLOBAL OPTIONS]**

## OPTIONS

**--password, -p**
Password for registry

**--username, -u**
Username for registry

**--authfile**
Path of the authentication file. Default is ${XDG_\RUNTIME\_DIR}/containers/auth.json

**--cert-dir**
Pathname of a directory containing TLS certificates and keys used to connect to the registry.
Default certificates directory is _/etc/containers/certs.d_.

**--tls-verify**
Require HTTPS and verify certificates when contacting registries (default: true)

## EXAMPLES

```
# podman login docker.io
Username: umohnani
Password:
Login Succeeded!
```

```
# podman login -u testuser -p testpassword localhost:5000
Login Succeeded!
```

```
# podman login --authfile authdir/myauths.json docker.io
Username: umohnani
Password:
Login Succeeded!
```

```
# podman login --tls-verify=false -u test -p test localhost:5000
Login Succeeded!
```

```
# podman login --cert-dir /etc/containers/certs.d/ -u foo -p bar localhost:5000
Login Succeeded!
```

The `-E` flag preserves the existing environment variables. To ensure that the credentials
are received for other podman commands, use `sudo -E` if not in a root session.
```
# sudo -E podman login docker.io
Username: umohnani
Password:
Login Succeeded!
```

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-logout(1), crio(8)

## HISTORY
August 2017, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani <umohnani@redhat.com>
