docs/podman-rm.1.md, before:

% podman-rm(1)

## NAME
podman\-rm - Remove one or more containers

## SYNOPSIS
**podman rm** [*options*] *container*

## DESCRIPTION
**podman rm** will remove one or more containers from the host.  The container name or ID can be used.  This does not remove images.  Running containers will not be removed without the `-f` option

## OPTIONS

**--force, f**

Force the removal of a running container

**--all, a**

Remove all containers.  Can be used in conjunction with -f as well.

**--latest, -l**

Instead of providing the container name or ID, use the last created container. If you use methods other than Podman
to run containers such as CRI-O, the last started container could be from either of those methods.

**--volumes, -v**

Remove the volumes associated with the container. (Not yet implemented)

## EXAMPLE

podman rm mywebserver

podman rm mywebserver myflaskserver 860a4b23

podman rm -f 860a4b23

podman rm -f -a

podman rm -f --latest

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-rmi(1)

## HISTORY
August 2017, Originally compiled by Ryan Cole <rycole@redhat.com>

Commit message:

rm -f now removes a paused container
We now can remove a paused container by sending it a kill signal while it
is paused.  We then unpause the container and it is immediately killed.

Also, reworked how the parallelWorker results are handled to provide a
more consistent approach to how each subcommand implements it. It also
fixes a bug where if one container errors, the error message is duplicated
when printed out.

Signed-off-by: baude <bbaude@redhat.com>

docs/podman-rm.1.md, after:

% podman-rm(1)

## NAME
podman\-rm - Remove one or more containers

## SYNOPSIS
**podman rm** [*options*] *container*

## DESCRIPTION
**podman rm** will remove one or more containers from the host.  The container name or ID can be used.  This does not remove images.  Running containers will not be removed without the `-f` option

## OPTIONS

**--force, f**

Force the removal of a running and paused containers

**--all, a**

Remove all containers.  Can be used in conjunction with -f as well.

**--latest, -l**

Instead of providing the container name or ID, use the last created container. If you use methods other than Podman
to run containers such as CRI-O, the last started container could be from either of those methods.

**--volumes, -v**

Remove the volumes associated with the container. (Not yet implemented)

## EXAMPLE
Remove a container by its name *mywebserver*
```
podman rm mywebserver
```
Remove several containers by name and container id.
```
podman rm mywebserver myflaskserver 860a4b23
```

Forcibly remove a container by container ID.
```
podman rm -f 860a4b23
```

Remove all containers regardless of its run state.
```
podman rm -f -a
```

Forcibly remove the latest container created.
```
podman rm -f --latest
```

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), podman-rmi(1)

## HISTORY
August 2017, Originally compiled by Ryan Cole <rycole@redhat.com>
