docs/podman-pod.1.md, before:

% podman-pod "1"

## NAME
podman\-pod - Simple management tool for groups of containers, called pods.

## SYNOPSIS
**podman pod** *subcommand*

# DESCRIPTION
podman pod is a set of subcommands that manage pods, or groups of containers.

## SUBCOMMANDS

| Subcommand                                        | Description                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [podman-pod-create(1)](podman-pod-create.1.md)    | Create a new pod.                                                              |
| [podman-pod-ps(1)](podman-pod-ps.1.md)            | Prints out information about pods.                                             |
| [podman-pod-rm(1)](podman-pod-rm.1.md)            | Remove one or more pods.                                                       |
| [podman-pod-start(1)](podman-pod-start.1.md)      | Start one or more pods.                                                        |
| [podman-pod-stop(1)](podman-pod-stop.1.md)        | Stop one or more pods.                                                         |

## HISTORY
July 2018, Originally compiled by Peter Hunt <pehunt@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Add pod kill
With tests, man page, and completions.

Signed-off-by: haircommander <pehunt@redhat.com>

docs/podman-pod.1.md, after:

% podman-pod "1"

## NAME
podman\-pod - Simple management tool for groups of containers, called pods.

## SYNOPSIS
**podman pod** *subcommand*

# DESCRIPTION
podman pod is a set of subcommands that manage pods, or groups of containers.

## SUBCOMMANDS

| Subcommand                                        | Description                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [podman-pod-create(1)](podman-pod-create.1.md)    | Create a new pod.                                                              |
| [podman-pod-kill(1)](podman-pod-kill.1.md)        | Kill the main process of each container in pod.                                |
| [podman-pod-ps(1)](podman-pod-ps.1.md)            | Prints out information about pods.                                             |
| [podman-pod-rm(1)](podman-pod-rm.1.md)            | Remove one or more pods.                                                       |
| [podman-pod-start(1)](podman-pod-start.1.md)      | Start one or more pods.                                                        |
| [podman-pod-stop(1)](podman-pod-stop.1.md)        | Stop one or more pods.                                                         |

## HISTORY
July 2018, Originally compiled by Peter Hunt <pehunt@redhat.com>
