docs/podman-varlink.1.md, before:

% podman-varlink "1"

## NAME
podman\-varlink - Runs the varlink backend interface

## SYNOPSIS
**podman varlink** [OPTIONS]
[**--help**|**-h**]
VARLINK_URI

## DESCRIPTION
Starts the varlink service that allows varlink clients to interact with podman.  This should generally be done
with systemd.  See _Configuration_ below.

**podman [GLOBAL OPTIONS] [OPTIONS] varlink VARLINK_URI**

## GLOBAL OPTIONS

**--help, -h**
  Print usage statement

## OPTIONS
**--timeout, -t**

The time until the varlink session expires in _milliseconds_. The default is 1
second. A value of `0` means no timeout and the session will not expire.

## EXAMPLES

Run the podman varlink service manually and accept the default timeout.

```
$ podman varlink unix:/run/podman/io.projectatomic.podman
```

Run the podman varlink service manually with a 5 second timeout.

```
$ podman varlink --timeout 5000 unix:/run/podman/io.projectatomic.podman
```

## CONFIGURATION

Users of the podman varlink service should enable the _io.projectatomic.podman.socket_ and _io.projectatomic.podman.service_.
This is the preferred method for running the varlink service.

You can do this via systemctl

systemctl enable --now io.projectatomic.podman.socket

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), systemctl(1)

## HISTORY
April 2018, Originally compiled by Brent Baude<bbaude@redhat.com>

Commit message:

docs: Follow man-pages(7) suggestions for SYNOPSIS
man-pages(7) has [1]:

> For commands, this shows the syntax of the command and its arguments
> (including options); boldface is used for as-is text and italics are
> used to indicate replaceable arguments. Brackets ([]) surround
> optional arguments, vertical bars (|) separate choices, and ellipses
> (...) can be repeated.

I've adjusted our SYNOPSIS entries to match that formatting, and
generally tried to make them more consistent with the precedent set by
the man-pages project.  Outside of the SYNOPSIS entry, I prefer using
backticks for literals, although in some places I've left the **
bolding to keep things visually similar to a nearby SYNOPSIS entry.

[1]: http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/man-pages.7.html

Signed-off-by: W. Trevor King <wking@tremily.us>

Closes: #1027
Approved by: rhatdan

docs/podman-varlink.1.md, after:

% podman-varlink "1"

## NAME
podman\-varlink - Runs the varlink backend interface

## SYNOPSIS
**podman varlink** [*options*] *uri*

## DESCRIPTION
Starts the varlink service listening on *uri* that allows varlink clients to interact with podman.  This should generally be done
with systemd.  See _Configuration_ below.

## GLOBAL OPTIONS

**--help, -h**
  Print usage statement

## OPTIONS
**--timeout, -t**

The time until the varlink session expires in _milliseconds_. The default is 1
second. A value of `0` means no timeout and the session will not expire.

## EXAMPLES

Run the podman varlink service manually and accept the default timeout.

```
$ podman varlink unix:/run/podman/io.projectatomic.podman
```

Run the podman varlink service manually with a 5 second timeout.

```
$ podman varlink --timeout 5000 unix:/run/podman/io.projectatomic.podman
```

## CONFIGURATION

Users of the podman varlink service should enable the _io.projectatomic.podman.socket_ and _io.projectatomic.podman.service_.
This is the preferred method for running the varlink service.

You can do this via systemctl

systemctl enable --now io.projectatomic.podman.socket

## SEE ALSO
podman(1), systemctl(1)

## HISTORY
April 2018, Originally compiled by Brent Baude<bbaude@redhat.com>
