docs/podman-container.1.md, before:

% podman-container "1"

## NAME
podman\-container - Manage containers

## SYNOPSIS
**podman container SUBCOMMAND [OPTIONS]

## DESCRIPTION
The container command allows you to manage containers

## COMMANDS

| Command  | Man Page                                  | Description                                                                    |
| -------  | ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| attach   | [podman-attach(1)](podman-attach.1.md)    | Attach to a running container.                                                 |
| commit   | [podman-commit(1)](podman-commit.1.md)    | Create new image based on the changed container.                               |
| create   | [podman-create(1)](podman-create.1.md)    | Create a new container.                                                        |
| diff     | [podman-diff(1)](podman-diff.1.md)        | Inspect changes on a container or image's filesystem.                          |
| exec     | [podman-exec(1)](podman-exec.1.md)        | Execute a command in a running container.                                      |
| export   | [podman-export(1)](podman-export.1.md)   | Export a container's filesystem contents as a tar archive.                      |
| inspect  | [podman-inspect(1)](podman-inspect.1.md)  | Display a container or image's configuration.                                  |
| kill     | [podman-kill(1)](podman-kill.1.md)        | Kill the main process in one or more containers.                               |
| logs     | [podman-logs(1)](podman-logs.1.md)        | Display the logs of a container.                                               |
| ls       | [podman-ps(1)](podman-ps.1.md)            | Prints out information about containers.                                       |
| mount    | [podman-mount(1)](podman-mount.1.md)      | Mount a working container's root filesystem.                                   |
| pause    | [podman-pause(1)](podman-pause.1.md)      | Pause one or more containers.                                                  |
| port     | [podman-port(1)](podman-port.1.md)        | List port mappings for the container.                                          |
| restart  | [podman-restart(1)](podman-restart.1.md)  | Restart one or more containers.                                                |
| rm       | [podman-rm(1)](podman-rm.1.md)            | Remove one or more containers.                                                 |
| run      | [podman-run(1)](podman-run.1.md)          | Run a command in a container.                                                  |
| start    | [podman-start(1)](podman-start.1.md)      | Starts one or more containers.                                                 |
| stats    | [podman-stats(1)](podman-stats.1.md)      | Display a live stream of one or more container's resource usage statistics.    |
| stop     | [podman-stop(1)](podman-stop.1.md)        | Stop one or more running containers.                                           |
| top      | [podman-top(1)](podman-top.1.md)          | Display the running processes of a container.                                  |
| umount   | [podman-umount(1)](podman-umount.1.md)    | Unmount a working container's root filesystem.                                 |
| unmount  | [podman-umount(1)](podman-umount.1.md)    | Unmount a working container's root filesystem.                                 |
| unpause  | [podman-unpause(1)](podman-unpause.1.md)  | Unpause one or more containers.                                                |
| wait     | [podman-wait(1)](podman-wait.1.md)        | Wait on one or more containers to stop and print their exit codes.             |

## SEE ALSO
podman, podman-exec, podman-run

Commit message:

Add manpages for podman refresh
Signed-off-by: Matthew Heon <matthew.heon@gmail.com>

docs/podman-container.1.md, after:

% podman-container "1"

## NAME
podman\-container - Manage containers

## SYNOPSIS
**podman container SUBCOMMAND [OPTIONS]

## DESCRIPTION
The container command allows you to manage containers

## COMMANDS

| Command  | Man Page                                  | Description                                                                    |
| -------  | ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| attach   | [podman-attach(1)](podman-attach.1.md)    | Attach to a running container.                                                 |
| commit   | [podman-commit(1)](podman-commit.1.md)    | Create new image based on the changed container.                               |
| create   | [podman-create(1)](podman-create.1.md)    | Create a new container.                                                        |
| diff     | [podman-diff(1)](podman-diff.1.md)        | Inspect changes on a container or image's filesystem.                          |
| exec     | [podman-exec(1)](podman-exec.1.md)        | Execute a command in a running container.                                      |
| export   | [podman-export(1)](podman-export.1.md)   | Export a container's filesystem contents as a tar archive.                      |
| inspect  | [podman-inspect(1)](podman-inspect.1.md)  | Display a container or image's configuration.                                  |
| kill     | [podman-kill(1)](podman-kill.1.md)        | Kill the main process in one or more containers.                               |
| logs     | [podman-logs(1)](podman-logs.1.md)        | Display the logs of a container.                                               |
| ls       | [podman-ps(1)](podman-ps.1.md)            | Prints out information about containers.                                       |
| mount    | [podman-mount(1)](podman-mount.1.md)      | Mount a working container's root filesystem.                                   |
| pause    | [podman-pause(1)](podman-pause.1.md)      | Pause one or more containers.                                                  |
| port     | [podman-port(1)](podman-port.1.md)        | List port mappings for the container.                                          |
| refresh  | [podman-refresh(1)](podman-refresh.1.md)  | Refresh the state of all containers                                            |
| restart  | [podman-restart(1)](podman-restart.1.md)  | Restart one or more containers.                                                |
| rm       | [podman-rm(1)](podman-rm.1.md)            | Remove one or more containers.                                                 |
| run      | [podman-run(1)](podman-run.1.md)          | Run a command in a container.                                                  |
| start    | [podman-start(1)](podman-start.1.md)      | Starts one or more containers.                                                 |
| stats    | [podman-stats(1)](podman-stats.1.md)      | Display a live stream of one or more container's resource usage statistics.    |
| stop     | [podman-stop(1)](podman-stop.1.md)        | Stop one or more running containers.                                           |
| top      | [podman-top(1)](podman-top.1.md)          | Display the running processes of a container.                                  |
| umount   | [podman-umount(1)](podman-umount.1.md)    | Unmount a working container's root filesystem.                                 |
| unmount  | [podman-umount(1)](podman-umount.1.md)    | Unmount a working container's root filesystem.                                 |
| unpause  | [podman-unpause(1)](podman-unpause.1.md)  | Unpause one or more containers.                                                |
| wait     | [podman-wait(1)](podman-wait.1.md)        | Wait on one or more containers to stop and print their exit codes.             |

## SEE ALSO
podman, podman-exec, podman-run
